 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM
BUILDINGS
[Enforcement Date 29. Sep, 2023.] [Act No.19282, 28. Mar, 2023., Partial
Amendment]
법무부 (법무심의관실)02-2110-3164
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS
[Enforcement Date 29. Sep, 2023.] [Act No.19282, 28. Mar, 2023., Partial Amendment]
법무부 (법무심의관실) 02-2110-3164
 
            CHAPTER I SECTIONAL OWNERSHIP OF BUILDING
               SECTION 1 General Provisions
 
Article 1 (Sectional Ownership of Building) Where several sections, into which one building is
structurally divided, may be independently used, each section may be the object of
independent ownership under this Act.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 1-2 (Sectional Ownership of Commercial Building) (1) Where several parts within one
building are sectioned for usage in any of the following manner, the said several parts
(hereinafter referred to as "sectioned stores") may be the object of ownership, respectively
under conditions stipulated by this Act: <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
1. Sectioned stores shall be used as sales facilities under Article 2 (2) 7 of the Building Act
and transportation facilities under subparagraph 8 of that paragraph;
2. Deleted; <Feb. 4, 2020>
3. Marks clearly demarcating the boundaries shall be firmly installed on the floor;
4. Marks of building numbers assigned for each sectioned store shall be attached firmly.
(2) Matters necessary for the boundary marks and building number marks under paragraph
(1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The terms used in this Act are defined as follows:
1. The term "sectional ownership" means the ownership, the object of which is the part of
the building (excluding the section for common use pursuant to Articles 3 (2) and (3))
provided for in Article 1 or 1-2;
2. The term "sectional owner" means a person who has sectional ownership;
3. The term "section for exclusive possession" means the section of the building which is
the object of sectional ownership;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
4. The term "section for common use" means the section of the building, other than the
section for exclusive possession, the annex facilities of the building that do not belong to
the section for exclusive possession and the annex building which is a section for
common use pursuant to Article 3 (2) and (3);
5. The term "site for building" means land on which a building to which the section for
exclusive possession belongs is located, and land which becomes the site for the building
pursuant to Article 4;
6. The term "right to use site" means the right which a sectional owner has in respect of
the site for a building to own his or her section for exclusive possession.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 2-2 (Relationship to Other Statutes) The special provisions of the Housing Act and the
Multi-Family Housing Management Act concerning the methods of and standards for
managing condominium housing and defect warranty liability shall be effective, except to
the extent that they infringe on the fundamental rights of sectional owners in
contravention of this Act. <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
[Title Amended on Aug. 11, 2015]
 
Article 3 (Sections for Common Use) (1) Corridors and stairs that lead to several sections for
exclusive possession, and any section of a building commonly shared by all or some of
sectional owners, in the aspect of its structure, shall not be the object of sectional
ownership.
(2) The sections of a building under Article 1 or 1-2 and its annex building may be made
as sections for common use by regulations.
(3) An owner of all sections of a building under Article 1 or 1-2 or its annex building may
prescribe provisions equivalent to the regulations under paragraph (2) by a notarial deed.
(4) In cases falling under paragraphs (2) and (3), the purport that the relevant sections are
sections for common use shall be registered.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 4 (Site for Building according to Regulations) (1) Land managed or used as one unit
with sites of passage, parking lots, gardens, annex buildings, and one building to which
sections for exclusive possession belong, and land on which said building is located may

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
be prescribed as the site of for building by regulations.
(2) Article 3 (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases falling under paragraph (1).
(3) If land on which a building is located ceases to be such land due to partial destruction
or damage of the building, the land shall be deemed prescribed as the site of building by
the regulations, under paragraph (1). The same shall also apply to cases where a portion of
land on which a building is located ceases to be such land by partition.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 5 (Rights and Obligations of Sectional Owners) (1) A sectional owner of a building
shall not perform any act which has adverse impact on the maintenance of the building, or
which is contrary to the common interests of all sectional owners in respect of the
management and use of the building in question.
(2) Where a section for exclusive possession is parceled out for residential purpose, the
sectional owner shall neither use that section for other purposes than residential one, nor
extend/renovate the section by removing or destroying interior walls without good cause.
(3) A sectional owner may request for the use of a section for exclusive possession owned
by any other sectional owner or a section for common use which are not shared by himself
or herself, within the extent necessary for maintaining or refurbishing his or her section for
exclusive possession or the section for common use which is shared by himself or herself.
In such cases, the sectional owner shall compensate such other sectional owner for
damage, if any.
(4) Paragraphs (1) through (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a person who occupies a
section for exclusive possession with no sectional ownership (hereinafter referred to as
"occupier").
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 6 (Presumption of Defect in Construction or Maintenance of Building) If damage is
incurred to others from any defect in the construction or maintenance of one building to
which sections for exclusive possession belong, such defect shall be presumed to exist in
sections for common use.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 7 (Claim to Sell Sectional Ownership) If a sectional owner who has no right to use the
site exists, a person entitled to claim the removal of the sectional owner's section for

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
exclusive possession may claim the sectional owner to sell his or her sectional ownership at
the market price.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 8 (Prohibition of Claim for Partition by Co-Owner of Site) If one building to which an
object of sectional ownership belongs exists on the site, co-owners of the site are
prohibited from claiming the partition of the site to the extent necessary for the use of the
building.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 9 (Warranty Liability) (1) A person who constructs and parcels out a building
(hereinafter referred to as “person who parcels out a building”) under Article 1 or 1-2 and
a person who constructs a building under a contract with a person prescribed by
Presidential Decree who parcels out a building (hereinafter referred to as “constructor”)
shall bear the warranty liability to the sectional owners. In such cases, Articles 667 and 668
of the Civil Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to such warranty liability. <Amended on Dec.
18, 2012>
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), where otherwise expressly provided by any other
statute with regard to a constructor’s warranty liability to a person who parcels out a
building, a constructor shall bear the warranty liability referred to in paragraph (1) to the
sectional owners within the scope of the warranty liability prescribed by that statute.
<Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(3) The liability for damage compensation under Article 667 (2) of the Civil Act among the
constructor’s warranty liabilities under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be borne only where a
person who parcels out a building is subject to an application for commencing procedures
of rehabilitation, an application for bankruptcy, dissolution, insolvency or other grounds
equivalent thereto; where a constructor has already indemnified for the damage to a
person who parcels out a building, the constructor shall be exempted from the liability to
the sectional owners to such extent. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(4) With regard to the warranty liability of a person who parcels out a building and a
constructor, special agreements which are more unfavorable to a purchaser than as
provided for in this Act and the Civil Act shall be null and void. <Amended on Dec. 18,
2012>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 9-2 (Duration of Warranty Liability) (1) The rights of sectional owners with regard to
warranty liability referred to in Article 9 shall be exercised within the following applicable
period:
1. 10 years, in cases of defects in the main structure referred to in Article 2 (1) 7 of the
Building Act and base construction works;
2. A period prescribed by Presidential Decree, being up to five years in consideration of
the severity of defects, durability period, replaceability, etc. in cases of defects other than
prescribed in subparagraph 1.
(2) The period referred to in paragraph (1) shall be computed from either of the following
dates: <Amended on Jan. 19, 2016>
1. Section for exclusive possession: the date such section is transferred to a sectional
owner;
2. Section for common use: the date of usage inspection under Article 49 of the Housing
Act (referring to the date of approval for temporary use where approval has been
obtained for temporary use of the entire condominium building, and referring to the
date of usage inspection by partition or by building where usage inspection by partition
or by building has been conducted under the proviso of Article 49 (1) of the Housing
Act) or the date of approval for usage under Article 22 of the Building Act.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), where a building is destroyed or damaged due
to a defect in any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (1), the said rights shall be exercised
within one year from the date the building is so destructed or damaged.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 9-3 (Management Obligations of Persons who Parcel out Building) (1) A person who
parcels out a building shall manage the building, site, and annex facilities with such due
care as required of a good manager until a manager appointed under Article 24 (3)
commences his or her duties. <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(2) Taking into consideration the standard regulations established under Article 28 (4) and
the regional standard regulations established under Article 28 (5), a person who parcels
out a building shall formulate provisions equivalent to such regulations in the form of a
notarial deed and provide it to a purchaser before concluding a parceling-out contract
with him or her. <Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) Where at least 1/2 of the prospective purchasers have registered the transfer of
ownership, a person who parcels out a building shall notify sectional owners of the
convening of a managing body's meeting (referring to the managing body's meeting
under Article 23; hereinafter the same shall apply) to prescribe regulations and to appoint
a manager, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, it shall be specified that a
managing body's meeting shall be convened within three months from the date of receipt
of the notice. <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(4) If sectional owners fail to convene a managing body's meeting within three months
from the date of receipt of notice under paragraph (3), the person who parcels out the
building shall convene such managing body's meeting without delay. <Newly Inserted on
Feb. 4, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
            SECTION 2 Section for Common Use
 
Article 10 (Vesting of Sections for Common Use) (1) The sections for common use are under
the co-ownership of all sectional owners: Provided, That some sections for common use
which is obviously provided only for common use by certain sectional owners (hereinafter
referred to as "sections for partial common use") belong to the co-ownership of those
sectional owners.
(2) Co-ownership under paragraph (1) shall be governed by Articles 11 through 18:
Provided, That matters provided for in Articles 12 and 17 may be separately prescribed by
regulations.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 11 (Co-Owner’s Entitlement to Use) Each co-owner is entitled to use sections for
common use in conformity with their purposes.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 12 (Co-Owner's Right of Share) (1) Each co-owner’s share shall be determined
according to the ratio of the area for his or her section for exclusive possession.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), if a section for partial common use occupying a
considerable area exists, the area of the section for partial common use shall be divided
according to the ratio of the sections for exclusive possession by sectional owners who

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
share the section for partial common use and added to the area of the section for each
sectional owner's exclusive possession.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 13 (Indivisibility of Shares to Sections for Exclusive Possession and Sections for
Common Use) (1) A co-owner’s share to the section for common use shall be in
accordance with the disposal of the section for his or her exclusive possession.
(2) A co-owner may not dispose of his or her share to the section for common use,
separately from the section for his or her exclusive possession.
(3) The acquisition or loss of, or any change in real rights on sections for common use
need not be registered.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 14 (Management of Section for Partial Common Use) Among the matters regarding
the management of sections for partial common use, matters in which all sectional owners
have interest and which are prescribed by the regulations under Article 29 (2) shall be
determined by resolution at an all sectional owners’ meeting; and matters, other than
aforesaid ones, shall be determined by resolution at the sectional owners’ meeting by
those who share their section for partial common use.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 15 (Change of Section for Common Use) (1) Matters regarding the change of a
section for common use shall be determined at a managing body's meeting by resolution
of at least 2/3 of sectional owners and of persons having voting rights: Provided, That
matters regarding the change of a section for common use may be determined by
resolution at an ordinary meeting under Article 38 (1) in any of the following cases:
<Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
1. The refurbishment of a section for common use which does not require excessive costs;
.2. Matters regarding the change of a section for common use of a resort condominium for
operating the resort condominium business under Article 3 (1) 2 (b) of the Tourism
Promotion Act.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), if the change of a section for common use has a
special effect on any other sectional owner’s right, the approval of the sectional owner
shall be obtained.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 15-2 (Change of Section for Common Use with Change of Rights) (1) Notwithstanding
Article 15, matters regarding the change of a section for common use, which is to cause
any change in the scope or contents of the sectional ownership and the right to use the
site, which is aimed to restrain the deterioration of the building or to improve its functions,
shall be determined at a managing body's meeting by resolution of at least 4/5 of
sectional owners and at least 4/5 of persons having voting rights: Provided, That matters
regarding the change of a section for common use which occurs in a resort condominium
for operating the resort condominium business under Article 3 (1) 2 (b) of the Tourism
Promotion Act, which is to cause any change of rights with regard to the resort
condominium, shall be determined by resolution of at least 2/3 of sectional owners and at
least 2/3 of persons having voting rights. <Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>
(2) A resolution adopted under paragraph (1) shall determine on the following matters. In
such cases, matters specified in subparagraphs 3 through 7 shall be determined in a
manner that maintains equity among sectional owners:
1. Design overview;
2.  Expected  construction  period  and  estimated  expenses  (including  expenses  for
transferring  any  special  loss);
3. Methods of apportioning expenses under subparagraph 2;
4. Uses of the changed section;
5. If any increase or decrease occurs in the number of sections for exclusive possession,
matters regarding the vesting of the changed sections;
6. Where any increase or decrease occurs in the area of a section for exclusive possession
or of a section for common use, matters regarding the vesting of the changed area;
7. Matters relating to right to use the site;
8. Other matters prescribed by regulations.
(3) Each sectional owner's approval or disapproval shall be recorded in the minutes of a
managing body's meeting for resolution under paragraph (1).
(4) Articles 48 and 49 shall apply mutatis mutandis where a resolution under paragraph (1)
is passed.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
Article 16 (Management of Sections for Common Use) (1) Matters regarding the
management of sections for common use, except as provided in the main clause of Article
15 (1) and Article 15-2, shall be determined by resolution at an ordinary meeting under
Article 38 (1): Provided, That the maintenance thereof may be done by each co-owner.
<Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
>(2) A person who occupies a section for exclusive possession with the sectional owner’s
consent may attend a managing body’s meeting under the main clause of paragraph (1)
and exercise the sectional owner’s voting right: Provided, That the foregoing shall not
apply where the sectional owner and occupier have determined otherwise and notifies the
managing  body  thereof  and  where  a  managing  body’s  meeting  is  convened  for
determining matters which have special impact on the obligations and rights of the
sectional owner, the occupant shall obtain prior consent from the sectional owner
regarding the exercise of his or her voting right. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) may be provided for otherwise by regulations.
<Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(4) Article 15 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases referred to in the main clause of
paragraph (1). <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 17 (Cost-Bearing for and Profit-Making from Sections for Common Use) Each co-
owner shall bear the management costs of sections for common use or other obligations,
and gain profits accruing therefrom according to the ratio of his or her share, unless
otherwise specified by the regulations.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 17-2 (Repair Reserves) (1) A managing body under Article 23 (hereinafter referred to
as "managing body") may formulate a repair plan regarding the replacement and repair of
the building, site, or annex facilities, by resolution adopted at a managing body's meeting,
unless otherwise provided in regulations.
(2) The managing body may collect and accumulate repair reserves according to resolution
of the managing body's meeting unless otherwise provided in regulations: Provided, That
the foregoing shall not apply where allowances or reserves are collected or accumulated
after a plan for long-term repair has been formulated under any other statute.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) The repair reserves under paragraph (2) (hereafter in this Article referred to as "repair
reserve") shall be collected from sectional owners and be vested in the management body.
(4) The managing body shall use the repair reserve for the following purposes unless
otherwise provided in regulations:
1. Construction works under a repair plan formulated under paragraph (1);
2. Repair works due to an unexpected reason, such as a natural disaster;
3. Repayment of money used for the purposes specified in subparagraphs 1 and 2.
(5) Matters necessary for formulating a repair plan under paragraph (1) and for collecting
and accumulating repair reserves shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020]
 
Article 18 (Effect of Claim Incurred in relation to Section for Common Use) A claim which a
co-owner has against another co-owner in relation to the section for common use may be
exercised against the special successor to such another co-owner.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 19 (Application Mutatis Mutandis of Provisions Governing Sections for Common Use)
Where sectional owners jointly own the site of the building or its annex facilities (including
their rights to the site or annex facilities) except sections for common use, Articles 15, 15-2,
16, and 17 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the site and annex facilities. <Amended on Feb.
4, 2020>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            SECTION 3 Right to Use Site
 
Article 20 (Indivisibility of Section for Exclusive Possession and Right to Use Site) (1) A
sectional owner’s right to use the site shall be in accordance with the disposal of his or her
section for exclusive possession.
(2) A sectional owner may not dispose of the right to use the site, separately from his or
her section for exclusive possession: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply if
specified otherwise by the regulations.
(3) The prohibition of separate disposal of the right under the main clause of paragraph (2)
shall not be opposed against a third party who has acquired a real right in good faith

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
unless the purport is registered.
(4) Article 3 (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proviso of paragraph (2).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 21 (Ratio of Right to Use Site according to Disposal of Section for Exclusive
Possession) (1) Where a sectional owner possesses not less than two sections for exclusive
possession, the right to use the site according to the disposal of any of his or her sections
for exclusive possession shall be determined by the ratio under Article 12: Provided, That
the foregoing shall not apply if otherwise specified by regulations.
(2) Article 3 (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proviso of paragraph (1).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 22 (Exclusion from Application of Article 267 of the Civil Act) The provisions of Article
267 of the Civil Act (including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under
Article 278 of that Act) shall not apply to the right to use the site in cases falling under the
main clause of Article 20 (2).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            SECTION 4 Managing Body and Its Agencies
 
Article 23 (Obligatory Establishment of Managing Body) (1) Once a sectional ownership
relation is established on a building, a managing body which is comprised of all sectional
owners shall be established for the purpose of managing the building, site, and annex
facilities.
(2) Where sections for partial common use exist, the sectional owners of such sections for
partial common use may form a managing body for the purpose of managing the sections
for partial common use pursuant to the regulations under Article 28 (2).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 23-2 (Obligations of Managing Body) A managing body shall exercise or perform the
rights or obligations of the sectional owners necessary for common interests concerning
the management and use of the building with the due care required of a good manager.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
Article 24 (Appointment of Manager) (1) Where the number of sectional owners is at least 10
persons, a manager to represent a managing body and execute the duties thereof shall be
appointed. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(2) A manager need not be a sectional owner, and his or her term of office shall be
provided in regulations for up to two years. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(3) A manager shall be appointed or dismissed by resolution at a managing body's
meeting: Provided, That such manager shall be appointed or dismissed by resolution
adopted by a managing committee established under Article 26-3 where so provided in
regulations. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Feb. 4, 2020>
(4) A person who occupies a section for exclusive possession with the sectional owner’s
consent may attend a managing body’s meeting under the main clause of paragraph (3)
and exercise the sectional owner’s voting rights: Provided, That the foregoing shall not
apply where the sectional owner and the occupant have determined otherwise and notifies
the managing body thereof, or where the sectional owner notifies the managing body that
he or she shall exercise his or her voting right in person before such meeting is convened.
<Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(5) If a manager commits an illegal act or has any ground making him or her inappropriate
to perform his or her duties, any of the sectional owners may request the court to dismiss
the manager. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(6) A person appointed as the manager of a building with at least 50 sections for exclusive
possession (excluding multi-family housing or rental housing subject to compulsory
management under the Multi-Family Housing Management Act, and superstores and
quasi-superstores with the managers of the superstores and quasi-superstores who have
reported pursuant to the Distribution Industry Development Act) shall report his or her
appointment to the Special Self-Governing City Mayor, the Special Self-Governing Province
Governor,  or  the  head  of  the  Si/Gun/autonomous  Gu  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
"competent authority"), as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Feb. 4,
2020>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 24-2 (Appointment of Ad Hoc Managers) (1) If a manager under Article 24 (3) does
not exist, interested parties, such as sectional owners, persons who occupy sections for
exclusive possession with respective sectional owners' consent, and the person who parcels

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
out the building, may request the court to appoint an ad hoc manager.
(2)  An  ad  hoc  manager  shall  convene  a  managing  body's  meeting  or  a  managing
committee to appoint a manager under Article 24 (3) within six months from the date of
his or her appointment.
(3) The term of office of an ad hoc manager shall begin on the date of his or her
appointment and continue until the date of appointment of a manager under Article 24
(3), and shall not exceed the term prescribed by regulations under paragraph (2) of that
Article.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020]
 
Article 25 (Authority and Obligations of Manager) (1) A manager has authority and
obligations to conduct the following: <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
1. Acts of maintaining sections for common use;
1-2. Acts of executing resolutions adopted at managing body's meetings on management
and change of sections for common use;
2. Acts of claiming and receiving, to/from each sectional owner, expenses and allotted
costs for performing the duties of the managing body, such as expenses for the
management of sections for common use, and of managing the money;
3. Judicial or extra-judicial acts of representing the managing body in respect of the
execution of managing body's business;
3-2. Acts of taking necessary measures, such as making a request to stop the act of
undermining peace in the community by causing noise, vibration, foul odors, etc., or
recommending procedures for mediation, etc. of disputes;
4. Other acts specified by the regulations.
(2) A manager’s representative authority may be restricted: Provided, That the restriction
may not be set up against a third party acting in good faith.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 26 (Manager’s Obligation to Report) (1) A manager shall file a report of the affairs of
the managing body to sectional owners and persons who occupy sections for exclusive
possession with the respective sectional owners' consent, at least once, every year, as
prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Mar. 28, 2023>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            14                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(2) The manager of a building with at least 50 sections for exclusive possession shall
monthly prepare books on all transaction activities, such as collecting, holding, using, and
managing expenses, allotted costs, and other money for conducting the business affairs of
the managing body, and shall retain them for five years from the end date of the relevant
fiscal year along with their evidential documents. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 28, 2023>
(3) An interested party may make to the manager a request for perusal of the reporting
materials under paragraph (1) or the books or evidential documents under paragraph (2)
or a request for issuance of certified copies of them at his or her own expense; in such
cases, the manager shall comply with such request except for the following information:
<Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>
1. Information likely to infringe on the privacy or freedom of individuals, such as personally
identifiable information under Article 24 of the Personal Information Protection Act;
2. Information that is the matters, etc. in the course of decision-making process or internal
review and is likely to cause substantial disruption to the fair performance of business
affairs, if disclosed.
(4) Paragraphs (1) through (3) shall not apply to multi-family housing and rental housing
subject to compulsory management under the Multi-Family Housing Management Act and
to a superstore or quasi-superstore having the manager of a superstore, etc. who file a
report under the Distribution Industry Development Act. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 28,
2023>
(5) The provisions of the Civil Act governing delegation shall apply mutatis mutandis to a
manager's rights and obligations not provided in this Act or regulations. <Amended on
Dec. 18, 2012; Mar. 28, 2023>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 26-2 (Audit) (1) The manager of a building prescribed by Presidential Decree with at
least 150 sections for exclusive possession shall undergo an audit conducted by an auditor
defined in subparagraph 7 of Article 2 of the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies
(hereafter in this Article referred to as "auditor") at least once a year: Provided, That the
foregoing shall not apply to years in which at least 2/3 of sectional owners and at least 2/3
of persons having voting rights adopt a resolution not to undergo an audit at a managing
body's meeting.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            15                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(2) A person who occupies a section for exclusive possession with the sectional owner’s
consent may attend a managing body’s meeting under the proviso of paragraph (1) and
exercise the sectional owner’s voting right: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply
where the sectional owner and occupier have determined otherwise and notifies the
managing body thereof, or where the sectional owner notifies the managing body that he
or she shall exercise his or her voting right in person before such meeting is convened.
(3) The manager of a building prescribed by Presidential Decree, which has at least 50 but
less than 150 sections for exclusive possession shall, where at least 1/5 of the sectional
owners make a request with their joint signatures, undergo an audit by an auditor. In such
cases, a person who occupies a section for exclusive possession with the sectional owner's
consent may sign the contract on behalf of the sectional owner.
(4) Where a manager has undergone an audit under paragraph (1) or (3), he or she shall
report the results of the audit, including an audit report, to the sectional owners and
persons who occupy sections for exclusive possession with the respective sectional owners'
consent, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(5) Necessary matters regarding the standards for and methods of an audit and methods
for selecting auditors under paragraph (1) or (3) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(6) No manager subject to an audit under paragraph (1) or (3) shall engage in any of the
following acts:
1. Refusing, obstructing, or evading the auditor's request for perusal, reproduction or
submission of data or his or her examination without good cause;
2. Obstructing the audit by fraud, such as submitting false data to the auditor.
(7) Paragraphs (1) through (6) shall not apply to multi-family housing and rental housing
subject to compulsory management under the Multi-Family Housing Management Act, and
to a superstore or quasi-superstore having a manager of the superstore or quasi-
superstore reported pursuant to the Distribution Industry Development Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020]
[Previous Article 26-2 moved to Article 26-3 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 26-3 (Establishment and Function of Managing Committee) (1) A managing committee
may be established under a managing body, as prescribed by regulations.
(2) A managing committee shall oversee a manager’s execution of his or her business
affairs prescribed by this Act or regulations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            16                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) Where a managing committee is established pursuant to paragraph (1), a manager shall
conduct the acts referred to in the subparagraphs of Article 25 (1) after a resolution
adopted at the managing committee: Provided, That this shall not apply to the matters
otherwise prescribed by regulations.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
[Moved from Article 26-2; previous Article 26-3 moved to Article 26-4 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 26-4 (Composition and Operation of Managing Committee) (1) The members of a
managing committee shall be elected from among the sectional owners by resolution
adopted at a managing body’s meeting: Provided, That this shall not apply where
regulations determine otherwise with respect to a resolution adopted at the managing
body’s meeting.
(2) No manager may become a member of a managing committee unless otherwise
provided in regulations. <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(3) The term of office of members of a managing committee shall be prescribed by
regulations for a period of up to two years. <Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020>
(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (1) through (3), matters necessary for the composition
and operation of a managing committee shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
<Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(5) A person who occupies a section for exclusive possession with the sectional owner’s
consent may attend a managing body’s meeting under the main clause of paragraph (1)
and exercise the sectional owner’s voting right: Provided, That the foregoing shall not
apply where the sectional owner and occupier have determined otherwise and notifies the
managing body thereof, or where the sectional owner notifies the managing body that he
or she shall exercise his or her voting right in person before such meeting is convened.
<Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
[Moved from Article 26-3 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 26-5 (Supervision over Management of Condominium Buildings) (1) If deemed
necessary for efficient management of condominium buildings and improvement of welfare
of residents, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, a Metropolitan City Mayor, a Special
Self-Governing City Mayor, a Do Governor, or a Special Self-Governing Province Governor

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            17                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(hereinafter referred to as the "Mayor/Do Governor"), or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu (the
head of a Gu refers to the head of an autonomous Gu; hereinafter referred to as "head of
a Si/Gun/Gu") may require the manager of a building with at least 50 sections for excessive
possession to report on the following matters or submit relevant materials:
1. Collection, accumulation, use, etc. of repair reserves under Article 17-2 (2);
2. Appointment or dismissal of a manager under Article 24;
3. Reporting under Article 26 (1) and preparation and retention of books and retention of
evidential documents under paragraph (2) of that Article;
4. Audits under Article 26-2 (1) or (3);
5. Convocation of regular meetings of the managing body under Article 32;
6. Other matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, which are necessary for supervising the
management of condominium buildings.
(2) Matters necessary for procedures, etc. for the issuance of orders under paragraph (1)
shall be prescribed by ordinance of the relevant local government.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 28, 2023]
 
Article 27 (Sectional Owners' Responsibilities for Obligations of Managing Body) (1) If the
managing body is unable to discharge its obligation with its own property, sectional
owners is responsible for discharging the managing body's obligations according to the
ratio of shares under Article 12: Provided, That the rate of defrayment may be separately
prescribed by the regulations.
(2) The special successor to a sectional owner shall be responsible for the managing body's
obligations incurred before his or her succession.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            SECTION 5 Regulations and Meetings
 
Article 28 (Regulations) (1) Matters regarding the management or use of a building and its
site and annex facilities, which are related to sectional owners but not provided for in this
Act, may be determined by regulations.
(2) Matters regarding sections for partial common use, which are irrelevant to the interests
of all sectional owners, may be determined by the regulations for the sectional owners
sharing the sections for partial common use, unless otherwise determined by regulations

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            18                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
for all sectional owners.
(3) In cases falling under paragraphs (1) and (2), the rights of a person, other than sectional
owners, shall not be infringed.
(4) The Minister of Justice shall prepare the standard regulations for the efficient and fair
management of buildings and their sites and annex facilities, subject to this Act. <Newly
Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012; Mar. 28, 2023>
(5) The Mayor/Do Governor shall prepare and disseminate regional standard regulations,
taking into consideration the standard regulations under paragraph (4), as prescribed by
Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 28, 2023>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 29 (Establishment, Amendments, and Repeal of Regulations) (1) The establishment,
amendments, and repeal of regulations shall be done at managing body's meetings with
the consent of at least 3/4 of sectional owners and at least 3/4 of persons having voting
rights. In such cases, if the establishment, amendments, and repeal of regulations has a
special effect on certain sectional owners’ rights, their approval shall be obtained.
(2) The establishment, amendments, and repeal of regulations for all sectional owners
regarding the matters provided for in Article 28 (2) shall not take place if more than 1/4 of
the sectional owners sharing a section for partial common use or more than 1/4 of persons
having voting rights oppose thereto.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 30 (Retention and Perusal of Regulations) (1) Regulations shall be retained by one
person, among the manager, sectional owners, or sectional owners' agents who use the
building.
(2) The sectional owner or his or her agent who is obliged to retain the regulations under
paragraph (1) shall be appointed by resolution at a managing body's meeting, unless
otherwise provided for in the regulations.
(3) An interested party may request for the perusal of the regulations or the issuance of
certified copies of them, at his or her own expense, to the person who retains the
regulations under paragraph (1).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            19                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
Article 31 (Power of Meetings) The affairs of the managing body shall be executed according
to resolutions adopted managing body's meetings, except the matters delegated to the
manager by this Act or the regulations.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 32 (Regular Meetings of Managing Body) The manager shall convene an ordinary
meeting of the managing body within three months after each fiscal year ends. <Amended
on Dec. 18, 2012>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 33 (Ad hoc Meetings of Managing Body) (1) The manager may, if deemed necessary,
convene a meeting of the managing body.
(2) The manager shall convene a meeting of the managing body when it is so requested
by at least 1/5 of the sectional owners specifying the detailed purposes of the meeting:
Provided, That the quorum may be reduced by regulations. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(3) When the manager fails to initiate a procedure of notifying that a meeting will be
convened on a date which falls within two weeks from the date of request within one week
after the request under paragraph (2) is made, the sectional owner who requested for
convening the meeting may convene a managing body's meeting by obtaining court
approval. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(4) In the absence of the manager, at least 1/5 of the sectional owners may convene a
managing body’s meeting. This quorum may be reduced by regulations. <Amended on
Dec. 18, 2012>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 34 (Notice on Convocation of Meetings) (1) In convening a managing body's meeting,
a notice shall be issued to each sectional owner no later than one week prior to the day
set for such meeting by stating the purposes of the meeting in detail: Provided, That such
period may be separately prescribed by the regulations.
(2) Where a section for exclusive possession is jointly owned by several persons, a notice
under paragraph (1) shall be issued to the person (a person among co-owners if such
person does not exist) designated to exercise the voting right under Article 37 (2).
(3) The notice under paragraph (1) shall be sent to the appointed place when a sectional
owner has notified the manager of the place to be served, or to the place where his or her

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            20                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
section for exclusive possession exists when he or she has not notified the place to be
served. In such cases, the notice under paragraph (1) shall be deemed to have been
reached at the time it is reached under ordinary conditions.
(4) The regulations may prescribe that a notice under paragraph (1) to a sectional owner
whose domicile exists in the building or to anyone who fails to notify the place to be
served under paragraph (3) may be replaced by a bulletin posted at an appropriate place
in the building. In such cases, the notice under paragraph (1) shall be deemed to have
been reached at the time the bulletin is posted.
(5) If the purposes of a meeting are related to Article 15 (1), 29 (1), 47 (1) or 50 (4), the
details of agenda and program shall be stated in the notice.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 35 (Omission of Convocation Procedures) Managing body's meetings may convene
without taking convocation procedure if all sectional owners consent thereto.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 36 (Resolutions) (1) Managing body's meetings may adopt resolutions only for the
matters notified according to Article 34.
(2) Paragraph (1) may be separately prescribed by the regulations except matters, for which
the special quorum is provided in this Act in respect of resolution at the managing body's
meetings.
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply to managing body's meetings under Article 35.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 37 (Voting Rights) (1) The voting right of each sectional owner shall be determined in
accordance with the ratio of shares prescribed in Article 12, unless otherwise provided for
in the regulations.
(2) If a section for exclusive possession is jointly owned by several persons, the co-owners
shall designate one person to exercise voting rights at meetings of the managing body.
(3) If the same section for exclusive possession is jointly occupied by several persons with
the sectional owner’s consent, one of them shall be designated to exercise voting right of
the sectional owner pursuant to Article 16 (2), 24 (4), 26-2 (2), or 26-4 (5). <Newly Inserted
on Dec. 18, 2012; Feb. 4, 2020>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            21                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 38 (Method of Resolution) (1) In the proceedings of the managing body, resolutions
shall be adopted by a majority of sectional owners and of persons having voting rights,
unless otherwise provided for in this Act or regulations.
(2) Voting rights may be exercised either in writing or by electronic means (referring to
methods of using an electronic information processing system or other information and
communications technologies as prescribed by Presidential Decree; hereinafter the same
shall apply) or by an agent. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
(3) When the notice for convocation of a managing body’s meeting is issued or a bulletin
in lieu thereof is posted, as referred to in Article 34, it shall clearly state the entitlement of
voting rights and specific methods of exercising voting rights pursuant to paragraph (2).
<Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (1) through (3), matters necessary for the exercise of
voting rights shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18,
2012>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 39 (Chairperson and Minutes) (1) A managing body's meeting shall be chaired by the
manager or the oldest person among the sectional owners who convened the meeting:
Provided, That the same shall not apply if otherwise provided for in the regulations or
resolved at the managing body's meeting.
(2) Minutes shall be made in respect to the proceedings of a managing body's meeting.
(3) Minutes shall state the course of the meeting and the results thereof, and the
chairperson as well as not less than two sectional owners shall sign and seal thereon.
(4) Article 30 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the minutes of meetings.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 40 (Occupier’s Right to State Opinion) (1) A person who occupies a section for
exclusive possession with the consent of the sectional owner is entitled to attend the
meeting and state his or her opinion, insofar as he or she has an interest in the purpose of
the meeting.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), the person who convenes a meeting shall post the
date, time, place and the purpose of meeting at the appropriate place in the building

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            22                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
without delay after giving a notice on convocation under Article 34.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 41 (Adoption of Resolutions in Writing or by Electronic Means) (1) Where at least 3/4
of sectional owners and at least 3/4 of persons having voting rights agree, either in writing
or by electronic means, or both in writing and by electronic means, on the matters
prescribed to be resolved at a managing body’s meeting under this Act or regulations,
such managing body's meeting shall be deemed to have been convened and adopt the
resolution. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Mar. 28, 2023>
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if a resolution is adopted either in writing or by
electronic means, or both in writing and by electronic means, after satisfying the quorum
requirements specified in the following classifications, such managing body's meeting shall
be deemed to have been convened and adopt the resolutions: <Newly Inserted on Mar.
28, 2023>
1. In cases falling under Article 15 (1) 2: A majority of sectional owners and a majority of
persons having voting rights;
2. In cases falling under the main clause of Article 15-2 (1), the main clause of Article 47
(2), and Article 50 (4): At least 4/5 of sectional owners and at least 4/5 of persons having
voting rights;
3. In cases falling under the proviso of Article 15-2 (1) and the proviso of Article 47 (2): At
least 2/3 of sectional owners and at least 2/3 of persons having voting rights.
>(3) Where sectional owners have designated one of them as their agent in advance and
reported the designation to the managing body, the agent may attend the managing
body’s meetings or exercise the voting rights in writing or by electronic means, on behalf
of the sectional owners. <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Mar. 28, 2023>
(4) Article 30 shall apply mutatis mutandis to information recorded in writing or by
electronic means referred to in paragraph (1) and (2). <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Mar.
28, 2023>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
[Title Amended on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 42 (Effect of Regulations and Resolution at Managing Body's Meetings) (1) The
regulations and the resolution of managing body's meeting shall be also effective to the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            23                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
special successor to each sectional owner.
(2) An occupier shall have the same obligations as imposed to the sectional owner
according to resolutions adopted at the managing body's meetings in respect of the use
of a building, site or annex facilities.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 42-2 (Lawsuits for Cancellation of Resolution) A sectional owner may file a lawsuit for
the cancellation of a resolution in either of the following circumstances within six months
from the date he or she becomes aware of the meeting’s resolution and within one year
from the date such resolution is adopted:
1. Where the procedures for convening a meeting or adopting resolutions violate the
provisions of Acts and subordinate statutes or regulations or are manifestly unfair;
2. Where the details of a resolution violate statutes or regulations.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
            SECTION 6 Measures Against Violators of Obligation
 
Article 43 (Request to Suspend Acts Contrary to Common Interests) (1) If a sectional owner
conducts or is likely to conduct an act under Article 5 (1), the manager or the sectional
owner designated by resolution at the managing body's meeting may request such
sectional owner to suspend, remove the outcome of, or take a measure necessary for the
prevention of such an act, for the sake of common interests.
(2) The instituting of a lawsuit under paragraph (1) requires resolution at the managing
body's meeting.
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases where an occupier has
conducted or is likely to conduct an act under Article 5 (1) to which paragraph (4) of that
Article shall apply mutatis mutandis.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 44 (Request for Prohibition of Use) (1) In cases falling under Article 43 (1), where an
act under Article 5 (1), which accompanies an obvious obstacle to community life which
may not be removed by the request under Article 43 (1), and thus makes it extremely
difficult to secure the use of sections for common use or to maintain the community life of

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            24                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
sectional owners, the manager or the sectional owner designated by resolution of at a
managing body's meeting may institute a lawsuit against the relevant sectional owner who
performs such act, seeking prohibition of use of the section for exclusive possession for a
reasonable period. <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(2) The request under paragraph (1) shall be adopted at a managing body's meeting by
resolution of at least 3/4 of sectional owners and at least 3/4 of persons having voting
rights. <Amended on Feb. 4, 2020>
(3) In adopting a resolution under paragraph (1), an opportunity shall be granted, in
advance, to such relevant sectional owner to defend himself or herself.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 45 (Auction of Sectional Ownership) (1) If a sectional owner has extreme difficulty in
maintaining community life by violating Article 5 (1) and (2), or obviously violating
obligations prescribed by the regulations, the manager or the sectional owner designated
by resolution at a managing body's meeting may request the court to issue an order for
the auction of such sectional owner's section for exclusive possession and right to use the
site.
(2) A request under paragraph (1) requires a resolution by the managing body's meeting
which shall be adopted by at least 3/4 of sectional owners and at least 3/4 of persons
having voting rights.
(3) In adopting resolution under paragraph (2), an opportunity shall be granted, in
advance, to the relevant sectional owner to defend himself or herself.
(4) If the decision ordering an auction according to the demand under paragraph (1)
becomes final, the person who has made the request may apply for the auction thereof:
Provided, That the same shall not apply when six months elapse from the date the decision
becomes final.
(5) The relevant sectional owner under paragraph (1) shall not be the successful bidder in
the auction held upon the application under the main clause of paragraph (4).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 46 (Request for Transfer against Occupiers of Section for Exclusive Possession) (1) If an
occupier has extreme difficulty in maintaining community life by violating obligations
under of Article 45 (1), or obviously violating obligations prescribed by the regulations, the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            25                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
manager or the sectional owner designated by resolution at a managing body's meeting
may request a cancellation of a contract, the object of which is the section for exclusive
possession, and the transfer of the section for exclusive possession.
(2) Article 44 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases under paragraph (1).
(3) A person who takes over the section for exclusive possession under paragraph (1) shall
transfer it to the person entitled to occupy the section for exclusive possession in question,
without delay.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            SECTION 7 Re-Building and Restoration
 
Article 47 (Resolution for Re-Building) (1) If the building was damaged or partly destroyed
after the elapse of a considerable time after its construction, or unreasonable cost is
needed for its repair, restoration, or management, compared with its price under other
circumstances, or re-building brings a remarkable increase of utility compared with the
expenses needed thereto by a change of utilizing neighboring land or under other
circumstances, the managing body's meeting may resolve to remove the building and use
its site for a new building which will become the object of sectional ownership: Provided,
That if the contents of re-building have special effect on sectional owners of other
buildings in the same aggregate housing area, the consent of those sectional owners
needs to be obtained.
(2) A resolution under paragraph (1) shall be adopted by resolution of at least 4/5 of
sectional owners and at least 4/5 of persons having voting rights: Provided, That a
resolution for re-building of a resort condominium for operating the resort condominium
business under Article 3 (1) 2 (b) of the Tourism Promotion Act shall be adopted by
resolution of at least 2/3 of sectional owners and at least 2/3 of persons having voting
rights. <Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>
(3) In adopting a resolution for re-building, the following matters shall be determined:
1. Outline of the design of the new building;
2. Estimate of costs necessary for the removal of the building and construction of the new
building;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            26                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
3. Matters regarding cost-bearing under subparagraph 2;
4. Matters regarding the vesting of sectional ownership of the new building.
(4) Matters under paragraph (3) 3 and 4 shall be determined under the principle of equity
among sectional owners.
(5) Each sectional owner's approval or disapproval shall be recorded in the minutes of a
managing body's meeting for resolution under paragraph (1).
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 48 (Demand for Sale of Sectional Ownership) (1) Once the resolution for re-building is
adopted, the person who convened the meeting shall, without delay, urge in writing the
sectional owners (including his or her successor) who did not approve the resolution to
reply whether he or she would participate in the re-building in accordance with the
contents of the resolution.
(2) Each sectional owner who is urged to reply under paragraph (1) shall reply within two
months from the date of being urged.
(3) If the sectional owner fails to reply within the period under paragraph (2), he or she is
deemed to have replied to the effect that he or she will not participate in the re-building.
(4) Upon the expiration of the period under paragraph (2), each sectional owner who
approved of the resolution for re-building, each sectional owner (including his or her
successor)  who  expressed  his  or  her  intention  to  participate  in  the  re-building  in
accordance with the resolution, or the person appointed to purchase the sectional
ownership and right to use the site pursuant to the agreement of all the above-mentioned
parties (hereinafter referred to as "appointee for purchase") may request the sectional
owners (including his or her successor) who made a reply to the effect that he or she will
not participate in the rebuilding to sell his or her sectional ownership and right to use the
site at the market price, within two months from the expiration date of period under
paragraph (2). The same shall also apply to the right to use the site by the person who
acquires the right only from the sectional owner after the resolution for re-building was
adopted.
(5) Where a request under paragraph (4) is made, if the sectional owner who made a reply
to the effect that he or she will not participate in the re-building might suffer from
substantial difficulty in his or her living by surrendering the building and the execution of
re-building is not greatly influenced, the court may, upon the application of the sectional

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            27                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
owner, grant a reasonable period not exceeding one year from the date of payment or
offer of the price, in respect of the surrender of the building.
(6) Where the removal work of the building does not commence within two years from the
date of resolution for re-building, a person who sold his or her sectional ownership or the
right to use the site under paragraph (4) may request, within six months from the
expiration date of the above-mentioned period, the person who holds sectional ownership
or the right to use the site to sell his or her rights for the amount of money equivalent to
the price which the purchaser had paid: Provided, That the same shall not apply to cases
where there exists any justifiable reason making the commencement of the removal of
building impossible.
(7) The main clause of paragraph (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases where the
removal work does not commence within six months from the date any justifiable reason
making the commencement of the removal of building impossible under the proviso of
paragraph (6) ceases to exist. In such case, "within six months from the expiration date of
the above-mentioned period" in the main clause of the same paragraph shall be deemed
"until the date whichever earlier between the expiration of six months from the date
knowing that any justifiable reason making the commencement of the removal of building
impossible ceases to exist, and the expiration of two years from the date on which such
reason ceases to exist".
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 49 (Agreement on Re-building) Each sectional owner who approved the resolution for
re-building, each sectional owner who made a reply to the effect that he or she will
participate in re-building pursuant to the contents of resolution for re-building, and the
appointee for purchase (including his or her successor) who purchased the sectional
ownership or rights to use the site, shall be deemed to have agreed on the re-building
pursuant to the contents of the resolution for re-building.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 50 (Restoration in Case of Partial Destruction of Building) (1) Where part of a building,
the price of which is not more than a half of the price of the entire building, is destroyed,
each sectional owner may restore sections for common use and his or her section for
exclusive possession which are destroyed: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            28                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
cases where a resolution under Article 47 (1) or a resolution for the restoration of sections
for common use is adopted before restoration work commences.
(2) A person who has restored the section for common use under paragraph (1) may
request the reimbursement of expenses incurred for the restoration work to sectional
owners in accordance with the ratio of their share under Article 12.
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) may be prescribed otherwise by regulations.
(4) In the case of partial destruction of a building except the case specified in the main
clause of paragraph (1), the managing body's meeting may adopt a resolution to restore
the destroyed section for common use by at least 4/5 of sectional owners and at least 4/5
of persons having voting rights.
(5) Article 47 (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases where such resolution under
paragraph (4) is adopted.
(6) Once such resolution under paragraph (4) is adopted, the sectional owners, other than
those (including their successors) who approved the resolution, may demand the sectional
owners who approved the resolution (including their successors) to purchase their rights to
the building and its site at the market price.
(7) In cases falling under paragraph (4), if no resolution under that paragraph or Article 47
(1) is adopted within six months from the date of the partial destruction of the building,
each sectional owner may request any other sectional owner to purchase his or her right
to the building and its site at the market price.
(8) In cases falling under paragraphs (2), (6), and (7), the court may grant a reasonable
period in respect of the payment of the reimbursement or price thereof at the request of
the sectional owner who has been demanded to reimburse or purchase.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            CHAPTER II AGGREGATE HOUSING AREA
 
Article 51 (Managing Body of Aggregate Housing Area) (1) If several buildings exist in one
aggregate housing area and the land or annex facilities therein (including the rights
thereof) belong to the co-ownership of the owners of that building (referring to sectional
owners in the case of the building in which the sections for exclusive possession exist),
these owners may form a body to manage the land or annex facilities in the aggregate

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            29                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
housing area, convene a meeting, establish regulations and appoint a manager, as
provided for in this Act.
(2) If several buildings exist in one aggregate housing area and the land or the annex
facilities therein (including the rights thereof) belong to the co-ownership of some of the
owners of the buildings (referring to sectional owners in the case of the building in which
the sections for exclusive possession exist), these owners may form a body to manage the
land or annex facilities in the aggregate housing area, convene a meeting, establish
regulations and appoint a manager, as provided for in this Act.
(3) The managing body of an aggregate housing area under paragraph (1) may set the
whole or part of the business of each managing body to which the members of the
managing body of aggregate housing area belongs as its business objective. In such cases,
the resolution of the managing body meeting shall be adopted by at least 3/4 of the
members and of person having voting rights of each managing body.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 52 (Application Mutatis Mutandis to Aggregate Housing Area) @Articles 3, 23-2, 24,
24-2, 25, 26, 26-2 through 26-5, 27 through 42, and 42-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to
cases falling under Article 51. In such cases, the number of buildings without any section
for exclusive possession shall be deemed the number of sections for exclusive possession.
<Amended on Dec. 18, 2012; Feb. 4, 2020; Mar. 28, 2023>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
            CHAPTER II-2 Condominium Building Dispute Mediation Committees
 
Article 52-2 (Condominium Building Dispute Mediation Committees) (1) A condominium
building dispute mediation committee (hereinafter referred to as “mediation committee”)
shall be established under the jurisdiction of the Special Metropolitan City, a Metropolitan
City, a Special Self-Governing City, a Do, or a Special Self-Governing Province (hereinafter
referred to as “City/ Do”) to deliberate on and mediate disputes related to any building to
which this Act applies.
(2) The mediation committee shall deliberate on and mediate each of the following
disputes (hereinafter referred to as “condominium building disputes”) at the request of
either party to a dispute: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Feb. 4, 2020>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            30                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
1. Disputes concerning defects related to any building to which this Act applies: Provided,
That, excluded herefrom shall be disputes related to warranty liability for and repairing
defects in collective housing referred to in Article 36 and Article 37 of the Multi-Family
Housing Management Act;
2.  Disputes  concerning  the  appointment  or  dismissal  of  a  manager  or  managing
committee’s members or concerning the composition and operation of a managing body
or a managing committee;
3. Disputes concerning the maintenance and management or change of the section for
common use;
4. Disputes concerning the collection, management and use of management expenses;
5. Disputes concerning the establishment or amendment of the regulations;
6. Disputes concerning the demolition, cost-sharing and reversion of sectional ownership
related to reconstruction;
6-2. Disputes concerning community life, such as noise, vibration, and foul odors;
7. Other disputes related to any building to which this Act applies as prescribed by
Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 52-3 (Composition and Operation of Mediation Committees) (1) The mediation
committee shall be composed of not more than 10 members, including one chairperson
and one vice-chairperson.
(2) Members of the mediation committee shall be appointed or commissioned by the
relevant Mayor/Do Governor from among any of the following persons with abundant
legal knowledge and experience on how to deal with disputes related to condominium
buildings. In such cases, at least two persons falling under subparagraphs 1 and 2,
respectively, shall be included herein:
1. A person who majored in law or in other studies related to dispute resolution, such as
mediation and arbitration and has at least three years’ university teaching experience in
the rank of assistant professor or higher;
2. A person who holds a lawyer’s license with at least three years’ experience in legal
affairs;
3. A person who has professional knowledge on construction works, defect appraisal or
management of collective housing and has at least three years’ experience in the relevant

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            31                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
affairs;
4. A public official in Grade V or higher who belongs to the relevant City/Do and has at
least three years’ experience in the relevant affairs.
(3) The chairperson of the mediation committee shall be appointed or commissioned by
the relevant Mayor/Do Governor from among the committee members.
(4) A subcommittee composed of not exceeding three members may be established under
the mediation committee to efficiently deliberate on and mediate disputes. In such cases,
at least one person falling under paragraph (2) 1 and 2, respectively, shall be included in
the subcommittee.
(5) Resolutions of the meditation committee shall be passed with the attendance of a
majority of all incumbent members and with the affirmative vote of a majority of members
present, and resolutions of a subcommittee shall be passed with the attendance of all
incumbent members and with the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present.
(6) Except as provided in paragraphs (1) through (5), matters necessary for the composition
and operation of the mediation committee and its subcommittees and matters regarding
mediation procedures shall be as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 52-4 (Exclusion of Members) (1) Where any member of the mediation committee falls
under any of the following circumstances, he or she shall abstain from deliberation and
mediation of the pertinent case:
1. Where a member or his or her spouse or former-spouse becomes a party to the relevant
condominium  building  dispute  or  is  in  relationship  of  joint  holders  of  rights  or
responsibilities  with  a  party  to  the  relevant  condominium  building  dispute;
2. Where a member is or was a party to the relevant condominium building dispute;
3. Where a member has made a statement or appraisal on the relevant condominium
building dispute;
4. Where a member has been involved in the relevant condominium building dispute as an
agent of a party to the dispute;
5. Where a member has been involved in a disposal or omission which led to the relevant
condominium building dispute.
(2) Where a member has a ground for abstention under paragraph (1), the mediation
committee shall determine as to whether the member shall be excluded, ex officio or upon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            32                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
a party’s request.
(3) Where any extenuating circumstance exists to prevent a member from impartially
executing his or her duties, a party may make an application for challenge of such member
to the mediation committee.
(4) Where any ground referred to in paragraph (1) or (3) arises in relation to a member, he
or she may abstain from the deliberation and mediation of the relevant condominium
building dispute of his or her own accord.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 52-5 (Applications or Notifications for Dispute Mediation) (1) Upon receipt of an
application for dispute mediation filed by a party to a dispute, the relevant mediation
committee shall give notice of the details of such application to the other party, without
delay.
(2) The other party shall, in receipt of notice given under paragraph (1), notify the
mediation committee of his or her intention as to whether he or she will accept mediation,
within seven days from the date of receipt thereof.
(3) The mediation committee may, in receipt of an application for dispute mediation under
paragraph (1), decide not to commence mediation for the relevant case, where it is
deemed that grounds exist such as the nature of a dispute, etc. for which the dispute is
unsuitable for mediation. In such cases, the mediation committee shall notify the parties to
the case of such decision not to commence mediation and the grounds therefor.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 52-6 (Procedures of Mediation) (1) The mediation committee shall, upon receipt of an
application for mediation referred to in Article 52-5 (1), immediately commence the
procedures of mediation and complete them within 60 days from the date receipt thereof,
unless mediation is not accepted under Article 52-5 (2) or a decision not to commence
mediation is made under Article 52-5 (3).
(2) Where the mediation committee fails to complete the mediation procedures within the
period referred to in paragraph (1), it may extend the period only once within a period of
up to 30 days by its resolution. In such cases, written notice shall be given to the parties to
the case, specifying the reasons therefor and the deadline.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            33                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) The mediation committee may hear the opinions of the interested parties, etc. before
commencing the procedures for mediation referred to in paragraph (1).
(4) The mediation committee shall prepare a mediation proposal and immediately present
it to each party to a dispute upon completion of the procedures referred to in paragraph
(1).
(5) The parties to a dispute shall, in receipt of such proposed mediation presented
pursuant to paragraph (4), give notice as to whether they will accept such proposed
mediation to the mediation committee within 14 days from their receipt thereof. In such
cases, where a party fails to give such notice of whether he or she will accept such
proposed mediation to the mediation committee within the said period, he or she shall be
deemed to have accepted the proposal.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 52-7 (Request for Appearance and Submission of Materials) (1) Where deemed
necessary for mediation, the mediation committee may request a party to a dispute, an
interested party to a dispute, or a witness, to appear and make a statement or to submit
materials, articles, etc. necessary for the mediation.
(2) The mediation committee may request a relevant Mayor/Do Governor and relevant
institutions to provide materials relating to the dispute in question to use them as
reference materials in conducting the mediation affairs.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Feb. 4, 2020]
[Previous Article 52-7 moved to Article 52-8 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 52-8 (Suspension of Mediation) (1) Where a party to a dispute gives notice of his or
her intention not to accept mediation pursuant to Article 52-5 (2), or where he or she
refuses a proposed mediation pursuant to Article 52-6 (5), the mediation committee shall
suspend mediation and give written notice thereof to the other party.
(2) Where one party to a dispute files a lawsuit, the mediation committee shall suspend
mediation and give notice thereof to the other party.
(3) Where one party to a dispute whose lawsuit is pending in a court applies for mediation,
the mediation committee shall reject such application in a ruling.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            34                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
[Moved from Article 52-7; previous Article 52-8 moved to Article 52-9 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 52-9 (Effect of Mediation) (1) Where the parties to a dispute accept a proposed
mediation pursuant to Article 52-6 (5), the mediation committee shall, without delay,
prepare a deed of mediation in triplicate and have the committee chairperson and each
party to the dispute shall put their signatures and affix seals thereto.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), it shall be deemed that agreement with the same
contents as those of the deed of mediation has been reached between the parties to a
dispute.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
[Moved from Article 52-8; previous Article 52-9 moved to Article 52-10 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
Article 52-10 (Appraisal of Defects) (1) The mediation committee may request safety
diagnosis agencies, agencies specializing in defect appraisal, etc. prescribed by Presidential
Decree to conduct a diagnosis, appraisal, etc. of defects, at the request of or in
consultation with the parties to a dispute.
(2) The mediation committee may request the Defect Examination and Dispute Mediation
Committee referred to in Article 39 of the Multi-Family Housing Management Act to
determine whether a defect exists at the request of or in consultation with the parties to a
dispute. <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015>
(3) Expenses incurred under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be borne by the parties to a
dispute, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
[Moved from Article 52-9 <Feb. 4, 2020>]
 
            CHAPTER III BUILDING LEDGER OF SECTIONAL BUILDING
 
Article 53 (Compilation of Building Ledger) (1) The competent authority shall keep building
ledgers of buildings prescribed by this Act, drawings of buildings and ground plans of each
floor, in respect of buildings subject to the application of this Act. <Amended on Feb. 4,
2020>
(2) A ledger shall be compiled with a paper to manifest one building and a paper to
manifest the building of the section for exclusive possession which belongs to the building.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            35                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) One paper shall be used for one building, and one paper shall be used for every
sectionalized building for of the section for exclusive possession.
(4) The ledgers of sectionalized buildings which belong to one building shall be compiled
into one ledger book and the papers which manifest the sectionalized building shall be
compiled following the papers which manifest one building.
(5) In cases falling under paragraph (4), if the papers which have been compiled reach
excessive amount, they may be bound into several books.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 54 (Matters to Be Registered in Building Ledger) (1) On the paper to indicate one
building, the following matters shall be registered: <Amended on Mar. 23. 2013; Feb. 4,
2020>
1. Location and the lot number of one building;
2. Number of one building, if any;
3. Structure and area of one building;
4. Number of the section for exclusive possession which belongs to one building;
5. Other matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and
Transport.
(2) On the paper to indicate the section for exclusive possession, the following matters
shall be registered: <Amended on Mar. 23. 2013>
1. Number of section for exclusive possession;
2. Number of one building to which the section for exclusive possession belongs;
3. Type, structure, and size of the section for exclusive possession;
4. If an annex building exists, the type, structure, and size thereof;
5. Name or title, and address of residence or office of the owner; if not less than two
owners exist, the share of each owner;
6. Other matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and
Transport.
(3) In cases falling under paragraph (2) 4, if the annex building is the one detached from
that section for exclusive possession or the one which sectionalized one detached building,
the location and the lot number of such one building, and the number, type, structure and
size of the building shall be registered on the ledger.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            36                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(4) In cases of paragraph (3), in registering the matters regarding the manifestation of the
building and owner, the cause, its date, and the date of registration thereof shall be
registered.
(5) With respect to the registration of the section for common use under Article 3 (2) and
(3), paragraphs (2) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. In such cases, it shall be registered
on the manifestation column that the relevant section is for common use.
(6) In cases of sectioned stores, the purport that no boundary walls exist shall be entered
in a structure column of the form for sections for exclusive possession.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 55 (Registration Procedures of Building Ledgers) The registration of the building
ledger shall be done upon the application by owner, etc. or by the competent authority's
decision based on investigation.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 56 (Application of New Registration of Building Ledgers) (1) A person who has
constructed a new building subject to the application of this Act, shall apply for the
registration of the building ledger simultaneously for all sections of exclusive ownership
which belong to the building, within one month after its construction.
(2) On the application under paragraph (1), matters provided for in Article 54 shall be
written and the drawing of the building, the ground plans (in cases of sectioned stores,
referring to ground plans prepared by a certified architect reported under Article 23 of the
Certified Architects Act or a surveying technician stipulated under Article 39 (2) of the Act
on the Establishment and Management of Spatial Data, recording the survey results on the
boundary marks of sectioned stores) of each floor, and the document proving that the
building is owned by the applicant shall be attached thereto, and if there is something
prescribed by the regulations or by notarial deeds equivalent to the regulations among the
matters written in the application, such regulations or notarial deeds shall be attached
thereto. <Amended on Jun. 3, 2014>
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a building which was not
governed by this Act but becomes subject to this Act due to sectioning, new construction
and any other reason.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            37                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(4) In cases falling under paragraph (3), the owner of the building may file the application
under paragraph (1) in subrogation of the owner of another building.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 57 (Application for Registration for Change in Building Ledgers) (1) If matters
registered in the building ledger are changed, the owner shall file an application for
registration of change within one month therefrom.
(2) One or several persons among the owners of sections for exclusive possession may file
an application for registration of change with respect to the matters to manifest one
building and sections for common use, within the period under paragraph (1).
(3) On the application document referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2), the matter sufficient
to manifest the changed matters and one building shall be written, and the documents
proving the change thereof shall be attached thereto, and where the location, structure, or
size of a building is changed or an annex building is newly built, the drawings of the
building or the ground plans of each floor shall be attached thereto as well.
(4) The purpose of use of a sectioned store may not be changed to the purpose other
than that provided for in Article 1-2 (1) 1.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 58 (Succession of Application Obligation) If an owner of a building is changed, the
application for registration under Articles 56 and 57 (1) which shall be filed by the ex-
owner, shall be filed by the new owner within one month from the date of the owner is
changed.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 59 (Ex Officio Investigation by Competent Authority) (1) The competent authority may,
when it makes registration in the building ledger either in receipt of the application under
Article 56 or 57 or ex officio, have a public official under its control investigate matters
regarding the manifestation of the building.
(2) The competent authority shall, when it receives the application under Article 56 or 57 in
respect of a sectioned store, investigate whether the details of application meet the
requirements under each subparagraph of Article 1-2 (1) and whether the building is in
conformity with the actual status.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            38                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
(3) In conducting an investigation under paragraphs (1) and (2), the relevant public official
may enter the building during the time from sunrise to sunset, make some inquiries and
request for the presentation of documents to the occupier or any other interested parties.
In such cases, the relevant public official shall produce a certificate indicating his or her
status to persons concerned.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 60 (Measures after Investigation) (1) In cases falling under Article 56, if the competent
authority deems the reported matters unreasonable based on the results of the
investigation conducted by the relevant public official, it shall issue an order for correction
stating the reason therefor, and if the competent authority deems that the state of a
building does not comply with Article 1 or 1-2 even if the reported matters are corrected,
it shall refuse the registration thereof and register the whole building as one building in
the ordinary building ledger.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), the reasons for refusing the registration shall be
notified, in writing, to the applicant within seven days from the date of registration in the
ordinary building ledger.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 61 Deleted. <Apr. 12, 2011>
 
Article 62 Deleted. <Apr. 12, 2011>
 
Article 63 Deleted. <Apr. 12, 2011>
 
Article 64 Deleted. <Apr. 12, 2011>
 
            CHAPTER IV PENALTY PROVISIONS
 
Article 65 (Fines) (1) A person who damages, moves, or removes the boundary marks or
building number marks stipulated by Article 1-2 (1), or who makes boundaries
unrecognizable in any other means, shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than
three years, or by a fine not exceeding ten million won.
(2) When a certified architect or a surveying technician records surveying results differently
from the facts on a ground plan stipulated under Article 56 (2), he or she shall be

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            39                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
punished by imprisonment for not more than two years, or by a fine not exceeding five
million won.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 31, 2010]
 
Article 66 (Administrative Fines) (1) A person who falls under any of the following
subparagraphs shall be subject to an administrative fine not exceeding five million won:
1. A person who fails to undergo an audit under Article 26-2 (1) or (3) (including where
said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52) or undergoes an audit by
fraud;
2. A person who engages in any act falling under the subparagraphs of Article 26-2 (6)
such as obstructing an audit, in violation of Article 26-2 (6) (including where said
provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52).
>(2) Any of the following persons shall be subject to an administrative fine not exceeding
three million won: <Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>
1. A person who fails to report the results of an audit or files a false report, in violation of
Article 26-2 (4) (including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under
Article 52);
1-2. A person who fails to comply with an order to report or order to submit materials, in
violation of Article 26-5 (1) (including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis
under Article 52);
2. A person who refuses to cooperate in, obstructs, or evades an investigation under Article
59 (1);
3.  A  person  who  fails  to  comply  with  a  request  to  answer  inquiries  or  to  present
documents  under  Article  59  (3),  or  who  falsely  responds  to  such  request.
(3) Any of the following persons shall be subject to an administrative fine not exceeding
two million won: <Amended on Mar. 28, 2023>
1. A person who fails to issue a notice, in violation of Article 9-3 (3);
2. A person who fails to convene a managing body's meeting, in violation of Article 9-3 (4);
3. A person who fails to file a report under Article 24 (6) (including where said provisions
shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);
4. A person who fails to file a report or files a false report, in violation of Article 26 (1)
(including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            40                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS」
4-2. A person who fails to prepare books or evidential documents or files a false book or
evidential document, in violation of Article 26 (2) (including where said provisions shall
apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);
4-3. A person who fails to comply with a request for perusal of reporting materials under
Article 26 (1) or books or evidential documents under paragraph (2) of that Article or a
request for issuance of the certified copies of them, without good cause, in violation of
the latter part, with the exception of the subparagraphs, of Article 26 (3) (including where
said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52) or who falsely complies
with such request;
5.  A  person  who  fails  to  retain  the  regulations,  minutes,  or  documents  (including
information recorded by electronic means), in violation of Article 30 (1), 39 (4), or 41 (4)
(including where these provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);
6. A person who refuses a request for perusal of the regulations, minutes, or documents
(including information recorded by electronic means) or a request for issuance of the
certified copies of them, without good cause, in violation of Article 30 (3), 39 (4), or 41
(4) (including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);
7. A person who fails to prepare minutes or fails to state matters which should be included
in the minutes, or makes a false statement in the minutes, in violation of Article 39 (2) or
(3) (including where said provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis under Article 52);
8. A person who is negligent in applying for registration under Article 56 (1), 57 (1), or 58.
(4) Administrative fines prescribed in paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be imposed and
collected by the competent authority (referring to the Mayor/Do Governor or the head of a
Si/Gun/Gu in cases falling under paragraph (2) 1-2) as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
<Amended on Mar. 23, 2013>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Feb. 4, 2020]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
