COMMERCIAL BUILDING LEASE PROTECTION ACT
 
 
 
 
Act No. 6542, Dec. 29, 2001
Amended by Act No. 6718, Aug. 26, 2002
Act No. 7358, Jan. 27, 2005
Act No. 9361, Jan. 30, 2009
Act No. 9649, May  8, 2009
Act No. 10303, May 17, 2010
Act No. 10580, Apr. 12, 2011
Act No. 11873, Jun.   7, 2013
Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013
Act No. 13284, May 13, 2015
Act No. 14242, May 29, 2016
 
 
 
Article 1 (Purpose)
The purpose of this Act is to guarantee the stability of the economic life of people by prescribing
exceptions to the Civil Act concerning the lease of commercial buildings.
 
Article 2 (Scope of Application)
(1) This Act shall apply to the lease (including cases where the main part of the leasehold property is used
for business purposes) of commercial buildings (referring to buildings subject to business registration
under Article 3 (1)): Provided, That in cases of lease the amount of security deposit for which exceeds that
prescribed by Presidential Decree, this shall not apply.
(2) The amount of security deposit under the proviso to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed according to
area-based classifications in consideration of the economic circumstances in the relevant areas, scale of the
leasehold property, etc., and the amount obtained by multiplying the rental value by the rate prescribed by
Presidential Decree in consideration of interest rates charged on loans, etc. of banks under the Banking
Act shall be included therein where rent in addition to security deposit exists. <Amended by Act No. 10303,
May 17, 2010>
(3) Notwithstanding the proviso to paragraph (1), Article 3, Article 10 (1) and (2) and the main sentence of
paragraph (3), Articles 10-2 through 10-8 and Article 19 shall also apply to the lease exceeding the
amount of security deposit pursuant to the proviso to paragraph (1). <Added by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Act No. 13284, May 13, 2015>
 
Article 3 (Counterforce, etc.)
(1) A lease shall become effective against third parties on the day following the date on which a tenant
files an application for the transfer of the relevant building and business registration under Article 8 of the
Value-Added Tax Act, Article 168 of the Income Tax Act or Article 111 of the Corporate Tax Act even
when no registration of the lease exists. <Amended by Act No. 11873, Jun. 7, 2013>
(2) The transferee of a leased building (including the person who has succeeded to the right to lease) shall
be deemed to have succeeded to the position of landlord.
(3) Where a building which is a leasehold property under this Act is subject to sale and purchase or
auction, Article 575 (1) and (3), and Article 578 of the Civil Act shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(4) Article 536 of the Civil Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the cases of paragraph (3).
 
Article 4 (Assigning Fixed Date and Providing Lease Information, etc.) 
(1) A fixed date prescribed in Article 5 (2) shall be assigned by the head of a tax office having jurisdiction
over the location of a commercial building.
(2) The head of the competent tax office shall prepare a fixed date register, in which the location of the
relevant commercial building, the date when a fixed date is assigned, rents and deposits, etc. are written.
In such cases, he/she may utilize the computerized data processing organization.
(3) Any one who has an interest in the lease of a commercial building may request the head of the
competent tax office to provide information, including the date when a fixed date is assigned to the
relevant commercial building, rents and deposits. In such cases, no head of the competent tax office, in
receipt of such request, is allowed to refuse such request without justifiable grounds.
(4) Any one who intends to conclude a lease contract may request the head of the competent tax office to
provide information pursuant to paragraph (3) after obtaining consent from a lessor.
(5) Matters to be included in the fixed date register, the scope of persons who have an interest in the lease
of a commercial building, the scope of information which can be requested to the head of the competent
tax office and matters necessary for assigning a fixed date and providing information, etc. shall be
prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 5 (Recovery of Security Deposit)
(1) Where a tenant files an application for auction of a leasehold building on the grounds of a final and
conclusive judgment on a lawsuit claiming the return of security deposit or execution title corresponding
thereto, the performance of opposite obligation or offer of such performance shall not be prerequisites to
commence execution, notwithstanding Article 41 of the Civil Execution Act.
(2) A tenant equipped with prerequisites for counterclaim under Article 3 (1) who has obtained a
certificate of a fixed date on the lease contract from the competent head of tax office has a right to be

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
reimbursed security deposit in preference to posterior creditors or other creditors from the realized amount
of leasehold building (including the site possessed by landlord) at the time of auction under the Civil
Execution Act or public auction under the National Tax Collection Act.
(3) If a tenant fails to transfer a leasehold building to any transferee, he/she may not receive the security
deposit under paragraph (2).
(4) Interested parties who are dissatisfied with the order of preferential payment and security deposit under
paragraphs (2) and (7) may raise an objection to an auction court or an agency issuing disposition on
default. <Amended by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
(5) Where an objection is filed to an auction court as prescribed in paragraph (4), the provisions of Articles
152 through 161 of the Civil Execution Act shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(6) When interested parties have verified to have instituted a lawsuit against a tenant, a financial institution
having succeeded the preferential payment right pursuant to paragraph (7), etc. within seven days from the
date an objection was filed, the agency issuing a default disposition that has received such an objection as
prescribed in paragraph (4) shall reserve the return of the security deposit to the tenant, a financial
institution having succeeded the preferential payment right pursuant to paragraph (7), etc. within the
extent any objections were raised until the lawsuit is concluded, and allocate the remaining amount. In
such cases, such reserved security deposit shall be allocated according to the result of such lawsuit.
<Amended by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
(7) When any of the following institutions has taken over the repayment of deposit of the tenant having
obtained the preferential payment right pursuant to paragraph (2), Article 6 (5) and Article 7 (1) according
to the contract, the preferential payment right shall succeed to it within the limit of the amount having
been taken over: <Added by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013; Act No. 14242, May 29, 2016>
1. The bank under the Banking Act;
2. The Small and Medium Industry Bank under the Industrial Bank of Korea Act;
3. The Korea Development Bank under the Korea Development Bank Act;
4. The Nong Hyup Bank under the Agricultural Cooperatives Act;
5. The National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives under the Fisheries Cooperatives Act;
6. The communications agency under the Postal Savings and Insurance Act;
7. The insurance company having obtained permission as an insurance commodity with the guaranty
insurance under Article 4 (1) 2 (d) of the Insurance Business Act;
8. In addition, the agency prescribed by Presidential Decree, which corresponds to an agency prescribed
in subparagraphs 1 through 7.
(8) A financial institution, etc. (hereinafter referred to as “financial institution, etc.”) having succeeded the
preferential payment right pursuant to paragraph (7) shall not exercise the preferential payment right in
any of the following cases: <Added by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
1. When a tenant has lost the requisites for counteraction under Article 3 (1);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. When the registration of leasehold has been cancelled under Article 6 (5);
3. When the registration of lease has been cancelled under Article 621 of the Civil Act.
(9) A financial institution, etc. shall not cancel the lease by performing on behalf of or subrogating the
tenant to exercise the preferential payment right. <Added by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
 
Article 6 (Order of Registration of Right to Lease)
(1) In cases where security deposit has not been returned after the lease terminated, a tenant may file an
application for an order of registration of the right to lease to a district court, branch court of district court,
Si court or Gun court having jurisdiction over the address of a leasehold building. <Amended by Act No.
12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
(2) When a tenant files an application for an order of registration of the right to lease, he/she shall include
the following matters therein, and substantiate the grounds for filing an application and such fact being the
cause for registration of the right to lease:
1. Purport of filing an application and grounds therefor;
2. Building which is the subject matter of lease (where the subject matter of lease is part of a building,
drawings of such part shall be attached);
3. Fact which has become the ground for registration of the right to lease (where a tenant has obtained
the counterforce under Article 3 (1) or right to preferential reimbursement under Article 5 (2), such
fact);
4. Other matters prescribed by Supreme Court Regulations.
(3) Articles 280 (1). 281, 283, 285, 286 and 288 (1), main sentence of Article 288 (2), Article 289, part
concerning Article 288 (1) among Article 290 (2), and Articles 291 and 293 of the Civil Execution Act
shall apply mutatis mutandis to the judgment on an application for order of registration of the right to
lease, landlord's raising an objection on the determination of order of registration of the right to lease and
trial thereof, application for cancellation of order of registration of the right to lease and trial thereof, or
execution, etc. of order of registration of the right to lease. In such cases, "provisional seizure" shall be
deemed "registration of the right to lease," "creditor" as "tenant," and "debtor" as "landlord."
(4) A tenant may file a protest against a court ruling dismissing an application for order of registration of
the right to lease.
(5) When registration of the right to lease following the execution of order of registration of the right to
lease is made, a tenant shall obtain the counterforce under Article 3 (1) and right to preferential
reimbursement under Article 5 (2): Provided, That in cases such tenant has already obtained the
counterforce or right to preferential reimbursement prior to the registration of the right to lease, no change
shall be made to the counterforce or right to preferential reimbursement, and such already obtained
counterforce or right to preferential reimbursement shall not be lost after the registration of the right to
lease even if prerequisites for counterclaim under Article 3 (1) are lost.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) A tenant who has leased a building (limited to part of a building where the subject matter of lease is
part of a building) for which registration of the right to lease following the execution of order of
registration of the right to lease was made shall have no right to preferential reimbursement under Article
14.
(7) Matters necessary for the implementation of order of registration of the right to lease, such as
commissioning of registration of the right to lease, recording of registration of the right to lease by
registrars, etc. shall be prescribed by Supreme Court Regulations.
(8) A tenant may request a landlord for costs incurred with regard to filing for an application for order of
registration of the right to lease under paragraph (1) and registration of the right to lease incidental thereto.
(9) A financial institution, etc. may file an application for an order of registration of the right to lease
under paragraph (1) by subrogating the tenant. In such cases, “tenant” under paragraph (3), (4) and (8) is
deemed to be “financial institution, etc.” <Added by Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
 
Article 7 (Validity, etc. of Registration of Right to Lease under Civil Act)
(1) Article 6 (5) and (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the validity of registration of lease of buildings
under Article 621 of the Civil Act.
(2) Where a tenant holding a counterforce or right to preferential reimbursement files an application for
the registration of lease in cooperation with landlord as prescribed in Article 621 (1) of the Civil Act,
he/she shall state the following matters in addition to the matters prescribed in subparagraphs 1 through 5
of Article 74 of the Registration of Real Estate Act in the application form, and attach documents (where
the subject matter of lease is part of a building, drawings of such part shall be included) verifying such
facts: <Amended by Act No. 10580, Apr. 12, 2011>
1. Date when an application for business registration was filed;
2. Date when such leasehold building was occupied;
3. Date when a certificate of a fixed date was obtained on the lease contract.
 
Article 8 (Termination of Right to Lease by Auction)
Where an auction under the Civil Execution Act has been implemented on a leasehold building, the right
to lease shall be terminated when such leasehold building is sold: Provided, That in cases of the right to
lease with counterforce for which security deposit has not been paid in full, this shall not apply.
 
Article 9 (Period of Lease, etc.)
(1) A lease, the period of which has not been determined or period of which has been determined for not
more than one year, such period shall be deemed one year: Provided, That a tenant may assert that such
period determined for less than one year is valid.
(2) Even after the lease is terminated, the relationship of lease is deemed to continue to exist until a
tenant's security deposit is returned.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Article 10 (Request, etc. for Contract Renewal)
(1) Where a tenant requests for renewal of a contract between six months and one month before the
expiration of period of lease, a landlord shall not refuse it without justifiable grounds: Provided, That in
cases falling under any of the following subparagraphs, this shall not apply: <Amended by Act No. 12042,
Aug. 13, 2013>
1. Where such tenant has been in arrears with an amount equivalent to three period of rent.
2. Where such tenant has entered lease by deceit or other fraudulent means;
3. Where such landlord has provided such tenant with substantial compensation by mutual consent;
4. Where such tenant has subleased all or part of the leased building without the consent of such
landlord;
5. Where such tenant has destroyed all or part of the building intentionally or by gross negligence;
6. Where the purpose of lease is frustrated because all or part of a leasehold building has been severely
damaged;
7. Where such landlord needs to recover possession of the building in order to demolish or reconstruct
all or part of the building for any of the following grounds:
(a) Where, at the time of entering into the lease contract, such landlord notifies such tenant of a plan
for demolition or rebuilding specifically stating the time and period of construction, etc., and
complies with the plan;
(b) Where there are safety hazards due to decrepitude, damage, partial destruction, etc. of the
building;
(c) Where there has been demolition or rebuilding pursuant to other Acts or subordinate statutes;
8. Where such tenant has substantially violated the responsibilities of tenant or grave reasons for which
the continuation of lease is difficult exist.
(2) Tenant's right to request renewal of the contract may be exercised within the extent that the whole
period of lease including the period of initial lease does not exceed five years.
(3) A renewed lease shall be deemed to have been renewed under the same conditions as those of the
former lease: Provided, That rent and security deposit may be increased or decreased within the extent
under Article 11.
(4) Where a landlord has failed to notify a tenant of a denial to renew or modify conditions within the
period under paragraph (1), lease under the same conditions as those of previous lease shall be deemed to
have been made when such period expires. In such cases, the period during which such lease continues to
exist shall be deemed one year. <Amended by Act. No. 9649, May 8, 2009>
(5) A tenant may notify a landlord of the cancellation of contract at any time in cases of paragraph (4), and
it shall become effective three months after the date such landlord is notified of such fact.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Article 10-2 (Exception on Renewal of Contract)
Where the renewed lease contract exceeds the amount of security deposit under the proviso to Article 2
(1), the parties to the contract may claim an increase or decrease in the rent and security deposit in
consideration of taxes and public imposts on commercial buildings, rents and security deposit of the
surrounding commercial buildings, other burdens, fluctuations in economic conditions, etc.
 
Article 10-3 (Definitions, etc. of Premiums) 
(1) “Premium” refers to a price, such as money, paid to a lessor or a lessee, other than deposits and rents,
as a price for transfer or use of tangible or intangible property value, including business facilities,
equipment, customers, credit, business know-how and business benefits generated from the location of a
commercial building, which is paid by a person who conducts or who intends to conduct a business in a
commercial building, the subject-matter of the lease.
(2) “Premium contract” refers to a contract which requests any person who intends to be a new lessee to
pay premiums to a lessee.
 
Article 10-4 (Protection of Opportunity of Collecting Premiums, etc.)
(1) No lessor shall obstruct any lessee in receiving any premium pursuant to a premium contract from a
person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, by committing any of the following acts from three
months prior to the expiry of the lease period until the end of the lease: Provided, That the same shall not
apply where any of the grounds set forth in the subparagraphs of Article 10 (1) exists:
1. Requesting a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee to pay premiums; or receiving
premiums from a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee;
2. Preventing a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, from paying a premium to the
lessee;
3. Requesting a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, to pay remarkably large-amount
of rents and deposits, compared with the tax on a commercial building, public charges, rents and
deposits of surrounding commercial buildings and other charges;
4. Refusing to conclude a lease contract with a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee,
without any justifiable grounds.
(2) In any of the following cases, justifiable grounds prescribed in paragraph (1) 4 shall be deemed to
exist:
1. Where a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, cannot afford to pay deposits or rents;
2. Where a person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, is likely to violate the duty of a lessee
or any reasonable ground exists, which makes it impracticable to maintain lease;
3. Where the subject-matter of the lease is a commercial building and has not been used for commercial
purposes for at least 18 months;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Where a new lessee selected by the lessor concludes a premium contract with the lessee and pays
premiums.
(3) Where a lessor violates paragraph (1), incurring any loss to a lessee, he/she shall be liable to
compensate for such loss. In such cases, damages shall not exceed the lesser amount of a premium to be
paid to a lessee by a new lessee and premium as at the time when the lease expires.
(4) Claim for damages to a lessor pursuant to paragraph (3) shall expire by completion of prescription if it
is not exercised within three years from the date when the lease expires.
(5) A lessee shall provide information to the lessor, to the best of his/her knowledge, on the financial
capacity of the person arranged by the lessee to become a new lessee, such person’s willingness and
ability to pay deposits and rents and to perform duties as a lessee.
 
Article 10-5 (Exemption from Application of Premiums)
@Article 10-4 shall not apply to any of the following commercial building leases:
1. Where a commercial building, the subject-matter of the lease, is a part of a large store or quasi-large
store prescribed in Article 2 of the Distribution Industry Development Act;
2. Where a commercial building, the subject-matter of the lease, is the State property prescribed in the
State Properties Act or public property pursuant to the Public Property and Commodity Management
Act.
 
Article 10-6 (Preparation, etc. of Written Standard Premium Contracts)
The Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport may prepare a written standard premium contract to
conclude a premium contract between a lessee and a person who intends to a be a new lessee and
encourage the use thereof.
 
Article 10-7 (Public Notification of Standards for Appraising Premiums) 
The Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport may publicly notify standards on procedures and
methods, etc. for appraising premiums.
 
Article 10-8 (Overdue Rents and Termination)
Where overdue rents of a lessee amounts to rents of three terms, a lessor may terminate a contract.
 
Article 11 (Right of Claim for Increase or Decrease of Rent, etc.)
(1) Where rent or security deposit has become insufficient due to taxes, public imposts, other increase or
decrease in the burden on such leasehold building or fluctuations in economic conditions, interested
parties may claim an increase or decrease in the future rent or security deposit. However, in cases of an
increase, it shall not exceed the rate set according to the standards prescribed by Presidential Decree.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) No claim for increase under paragraph (1) shall be made within one year after the lease contract or
agreed increase in rent, etc. is made.
 
Article 12 (Restriction on Calculation Rate when Converting into Monthly Rent)
Where all or part of security deposit is converted into monthly rent, such monthly rent shall not exceed the
extent of monthly rent obtained by multiplying an amount to be converted by a rate which is lower
between the following subparagraphs: <Amended by Act No. 10303, May 17, 2010; Act No. 12042, Aug. 13,
2013>
1. A rate prescribed by Presidential Decree in consideration of the interest rate on loans of banks under
the Banking Act, the economic conditions of the relevant areas, etc.
2. A rate obtained by multiplying the basic interest rate officially announced by the Bank of Korea by
the multiple prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 13 (Application, etc. to Sublease Relationship)
(1) Articles 10, 10-2, 10-8, 11 and 12 shall apply to the sublease relationship between a sublessor and a
sublessee. <Amended by Act No. 13284, May 13, 2015>
(2) A sublessee who has concluded a sublease contract with the approval of such landlord may exercise a
right to request renewal of lease to such landlord on behalf of such tenant within a period during which the
right to request renewal of contract can be exercised by the tenant.
 
Article 14 (Protection of Certain Amount among Security Deposit)
(1) A tenant shall have a right to be reimbursed a certain amount among security deposit in preference to
other holders of a real right granted by way of security. In such cases, such tenant shall satisfy the
conditions under Article 3 (1) before registering an application for the auction of a building.
(2) The provisions of Article 5 (4) through (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases under paragraph (1).
(3) A tenant who is to be reimbursed preferentially, and the extent of a certain amount among security
deposit and standards therefor under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree considering
the economic conditions of relevant areas, security deposit, rent, etc. within the extent of 1/2 of the price
of leasehold building (including the price of site possessed by landlord). <Amended by Act No. 12042, Aug.
13, 2013>
 
Article 15 (Mandatory Provisions)
Any agreement in violation of the provisions of this Act which is unfavorable to a tenant shall be null and
void.
 
Article 16 (Lease for Temporary Use)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This Act shall not apply to any lease evidently for temporary use.
 
Article 17 (Application to Unregistered Lease on Deposit Basis Mutatis Mutandis)
This Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to contracts of lease on a deposit basis of buildings unregistered. In
such cases, "security deposit for lease on a deposit basis" shall be deemed "security deposit of lease".
 
Article 18 (Application to Trial of Small Claims Act Mutatis Mutandis)
@Articles 6, 7, 10 and 11-2 of the Trial of Small Claims Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to a lawsuit
claiming the return of security deposit, instituted by a tenant against a landlord.
 
Article 19 (Preparation, etc. of Written Standard Contracts) 
The Minister of Justice may prepare a written standard contract on a commercial building lease in which
deposits, rents, period of a lease and sharing repair costs, etc. are written and encourage the use thereof.
 
ADDENDA
(1) (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on November 1, 2002.
(2) (Applicability) This Act shall apply beginning from the first lease concluded or renewed after this Act
enters into force: Provided, That the provisions of Articles 3, 5 and 14 shall apply to any lease in existence at
the time this Act enters into force, however, such provisions shall not be effective in relation to third parties
who have acquired real rights before this Act enters into force.
(3) (Transitional Measures concerning Application for Obtaining Fixed Date by Existing Tenant) A tenant at
the time this Act enters into force who intends to have the protection of preferential reimbursement of
security deposit under the provisions of Article 5 may request the head of the tax office having jurisdiction
over the address of buildings to issue a certificate of a fixed date on the lease contract as prescribed by
Presidential Decree before this Act enters into force.
 
 
ADDENDUM <Act No. 6718, Aug. 26, 2002>
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 7358, Jan. 27, 2005>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 4 Omitted.
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADDENDUM <Act No. 9361, Jan. 30, 2009>
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
 
 
ADDENDUM <Act No. 9649, May 8, 2009>
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 10303, May 17, 2010>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) 
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 through 10 Omitted. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 10580, Apr. 12, 2011>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) 
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 11873, Jun. 7, 2013>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) 
This Act shall enter into force on July 1, 2013.
Articles 2 through 19 Omitted.  
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 12042, Aug. 13, 2013>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) 
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions
of Article 12 and 14 (3) shall enter into force on January 1, 2014.
Articles 2 (Cases of Application)
This Act shall begin to apply with the first lease contract entered into or revised.
Article 3 (Application concerning Preferential Payment Right of Financial Institutions, etc.) 
The amended provisions of Article 5 (4) and (6) through (9), and Article 6 (1) and (9) shall apply to the
lease subsisting at the time of the enforcement of this Act, and apply from the time of taking over the
repayment of deposit for the first time after this Act enters into force.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Article 4 (Application concerning Limit of Calculation Rate in Transferring Monthly Rents) 
The amended provisions of Article 12 shall apply to the lease subsisting at the time of the enforcement
of the amended provisions, and apply from the time of transferring the whole or a part of security
deposit into monthly rent for the first time after the amended provisions enters into force.
Article 5 (Application concerning Protection of Small Amount of Security Deposit) 
The amended provisions of Article 14 (3) shall apply to the lease subsisting at the time of the
enforcement of the same amended provisions, but are inapplicable to any third party who has obtained a
real right before the same amended provisions enter into force.
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 13284, May 13, 2015>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions
of Article 4 shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Applicability concerning Counterforce) 
The provisons of Article 3 concerning the counterforce from among the amended provisions of Article 2
(3) shall apply, beginning with the first lease on which a contract is concluded or which is renewed after
this Act enters into force.
Article 3 (Applicability concerning Protection of Opportunity of Collecting Premiums, etc.) 
The amended provisions of Article 10-4 shall apply, beginning with leases existing as at the time this
Act enters into force.
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 14242, May 29, 2016>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on December 1, 2016. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 through 22 Omitted.
 
 
 
Last updated : 2017-03-20

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
