 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY
DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE
[Enforcement Date 05. Jun, 2018.] [Presidential Decree No.28946, 05. Jun, 2018.,
Amendment by Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과)044-215-5153
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING
UPON THE STATE
[Enforcement Date 05. Jun, 2018.] [Presidential Decree No.28946, 05. Jun, 2018., Amendment by Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과) 044-215-5153
 
            SECTION 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 The farmland referred to in the proviso to Article 2 (1) of the Act on Disposal of
Property Devolving upon the State (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”) shall not include,
regardless of the category of land, any land under actual buildings, any site recognized as
land under an urban district plan, and any land directly required in operating enterprises. 
 
Article 2 Associations, etc. referred to in Article 2 (2) of the Act mean associations, etc.
established according to statutes. 
 
Article 3 In cases of property devolving upon the State designated as State property or
public property pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, a Minister who has jurisdiction over the
relevant property or the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian shall manage it
pursuant to Chapter IV of the Act until a statute governing the relevant property enters
into force. 
 
            SECTION 2 PROCEDURES FOR STATE OWNERSHIP, STATE MANAGEMENT, PUBLIC
OWNERSHIP, AND PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
 
Article 4 With respect to the immovables and movables referred to in Article 5 (1) of the Act
and the immovables and movables required for official use or public use referred to in
paragraph (2) of the same Article, approval from the President shall be obtained after a
proposal is made by each relevant Minister and via the Prime Minister according to the
resolution thereon by the State Council; then, the Head of the Office of the Property
Custodian shall prepare a list of the relevant property and transfer it to the Minister of
Strategy and Finance or the competent Mayor/Do Governor, who shall subsequently
transfer it to the relevant authority. <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 14438, Dec. 23, 1994;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29, 2008>
With respect to the immovables and movables that a certified agency for public edification
and welfare needs in order to provide for public service projects pursuant to the latter part
of Article 5 (2) of the Act, approval from the President shall be obtained after a proposal is
made by the Minister having jurisdiction over the agency for public edification and welfare
and via the Prime Minister according to the resolution thereon by the State Council; then,
the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian shall prepare a list of the relevant
property and transfer it to the Minister of Strategy and Finance or the Competent
Mayor/Do Governor, who shall subsequently transfer it to the relevant agency for public
edification and welfare for its use.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 14438, Dec. 23, 1994;
Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29, 2008>
 
Article 5 With respect to enterprises to be designated as State enterprises or public
enterprises pursuant to Article 6 of the Act, approval from the President shall be obtained
after a proposal is made by the Minister having jurisdiction over the relevant enterprises
and the Director of Planning and via the Prime Minister according to the resolution
thereon by the State Council, and such enterprises shall be publicly announced by the
State Council. 
 
            SECTION 3 PROCEDURES FOR SALE AND LIQUIDATION
 
Article 6 Where the competent Minister intends to divide and sell the property of an
enterprise pursuant to the proviso to Article 8 (1) 1 of the Act, he/she shall obtain consent
from the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian. 
Where the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian deems it appropriate to divide
and sell the property of an enterprise as prescribed in the proviso to Article 8 (1) 1 of the
Act, he/she may request that the competent Minister divide and sell the relevant property.
 
Article 7 A person disqualified from purchasing property devolving upon the State prescribed
in subparagraph 5 of Article 9 of the Act means a person who has engaged in an act that
constitutes any of the grounds for disqualification that has been verified by a decision,
disposition, etc. of the competent authority, including: Receiving a foregift for property
devolving upon the State and transferring its rights or subleasing it without permission;
causing damage to property devolving upon the State; causing significant difficulty in

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
managing and operating property devolving upon the State, etc. 
The grounds for disqualification from purchasing property devolving upon the State
prescribed in Article 9 of the Act mean any ground for disqualification that has arisen as at
the time a purchase contract is concluded for the relevant property pursuant to this
Decree.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
In applying the preceding paragraph, no claim shall be made against any ground for
disqualification not found within three years from the date the purchase contract for the
relevant property is concluded.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
 
Article 8 The area within 20 kilometers from the house or land devolving upon the State
prescribed in Article 12 of the Act means an area within a 20-kilometer radius on a map
from the relevant house or land devolving upon the State. 
 
Article 9 Property devolving upon the State shall be sold to a person entitled to preferentially
purchase pursuant to Article 15 of the Act or to a successful bidder in accordance with the
following: <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
1. Any person entitled to preferentially purchase pursuant to Article 15 of the Act and
others intending to purchase property devolving upon the State shall participate in a bid
by determining their bidding price as prescribed by the Head of the Office of the
Property Custodian;
2. The bid openings shall be open to the public with attendance of the members of the
Property Custodianship Committee, journalists, etc., and if the highest bidder is found
not to be a person entitled to preferentially purchase pursuant to Article 15 of the Act as
a result of opening the bids, the sale shall be made according to the ranking of persons
entitled to preferentially purchase at the highest bid: Provided, That where the highest
bid is lower than the value appraised by the Government, the relevant property shall be
sold at the value appraised by the Government;
The Government’s appraised value referred to in this subparagraph means the market price
of the relevant property as at the time of sale prescribed in Article 18 of the Act, and it
shall be determined by the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian after undergoing
appraisal by at least two finance institutions and the examination and resolution thereon
by the Property Custodianship Committee;
3. Where it is impossible to sell property devolving upon the State pursuant to the
preceding subparagraph, it shall be sold to the highest bidder: Provided, That if the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
relevant highest bidder is disqualified from purchase under the Act or fails to respond to
a request for a contract, the relevant property may be sold only to the second or third
highest bidder. In such cases, the sale price shall be the highest bid;
4. Where the highest bidder fails to purchase the property devolving upon the State due
to subparagraph 2, and if a priority holder who has concluded the purchase contract
instead of him/her falls under any ground for disqualification, or is found to have any
ground for disqualification prescribed in Article 9 of the Act, within three years from
concluding the purchase contract, the sale shall be made to the relevant highest bidder.
 
Article 10 The ranking of persons entitled to preferentially purchase property devolving upon
the State, as persons of good faith having the legitimacy, sound mind, and operational
capacity as prescribed in Article 15 of the Act, shall be as follows: 
1. In cases of enterprises, stocks, and shares, the priority order shall be as follows:　The
lessees and custodians; the shareholders, employees, and cooperative members of the
relevant enterprise and its workers who have worked for the enterprise for at least two
consecutive years; and persons whose farmland has been purchased by the State under
the  Farmland  Reform  Act:  Provided,  That  the  foregoing  shall  apply  only  to  the
shareholders, employees, and cooperative members who held status as a shareholder,
employee, or cooperative member of the relevant enterprise prior to August 9, Dangun
Year 4278;
2. In cases of housing, the priority order shall be as follows: The lessees; houseless persons
of distinguished service to the State and his/her bereaved family; houseless and needy
workers; and persons who cannot afford to purchase a house other than houses
devolving upon the State;
3. In cases of stores, warehouses, vacant land, and immovable property other than houses,
the priority order shall be as follows: The lessees and custodians;
4. In cases of movable property, relatives shall have the priority.
Stores referred to in subparagraph 3 of the preceding paragraph shall be limited to the
stores in whose cases the registration of trade name was made or the permission for
business was obtained before August 9, Dangun Year 4278 or to the stores in whose case
at least 50 percent of the relevant building is used for commercial purposes.
Persons  who  jointly  lease  or  manage  immovable  property,  other  than  enterprises
prescribed  in  paragraph  (1),  shall  have  mutually  equal  priority.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Where one building has multiple lessees, its sale shall be made collectively to the relevant
multiple lessees.
“Lessee” as referred to in this Article means a person who has concluded a lease contract
for a certain property and actually uses the relevant property himself/herself.
 
Article 11 Any person entitled to preferentially purchase property devolving upon the State
pursuant to the preceding Article shall notify the Head of the Office of the Property
Custodian of his/her intent to preferentially purchase the relevant property devolving upon
the State by the day immediately before the bid date for the relevant property. <Amended
by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
A person selected as a purchaser pursuant to Article 9 shall conclude a purchase contract
within three weeks as prescribed by the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian.
Any person who fails to notify his/her intent for preferential purchase or to conclude a
purchase contract prescribed in paragraph (1) or (2) shall lose his/her entitlement.
<Amended  by  Presidential  Decree  No.  360,  May  27,  1950>
 
Article 12 The Head of the Office of the Property Custodian shall publicly announce the date
and venue of the bid for property to be sold, the method for bidding, and the method for
making payment two weeks prior to the bidding. <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May
27, 1950; Presidential Decree No. 405, Nov. 25, 1950>
Any person who participates in the bidding prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall
pay a predetermined amount as deposit as prescribed by the Head of the Office of the
Property Custodian.
The deposit referred to in the preceding paragraph shall not be returned to a person who
fails to respond to a request for a purchase contract instead of a successful bidder
disqualified from purchase under the Act.
 
Article 12-2 The Head of the Office of the Property Custodian and the Property
Custodianship Committee shall respectively prepare and retain documents related to bids
for property devolving upon the State. 
[This Article Newly Inserted by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950]
 
Article 13 Property to be sold pursuant to Article 12 (1) shall include property in dispute:
Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply to property subject to pending court
proceedings. The order of selling property to be sold pursuant to Article 12 (1) shall be

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
determined by the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian after examination and
resolution thereon by the Property Custodianship Committee. 
[This Article Wholly Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950]
 
Article 14 Matters related to fully paying the purchase price in cash in a lump sum, the
method for payment in installments, the period for installment payments, amount of each
installment, etc. shall be determined by general rules classified by category of enterprise,
immovable property, stocks, shares, etc. <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
The general provisions referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be prescribed by the
Head of the Office of the Property Custodian after examination and resolution thereon by
the Property Custodianship Committee.<Newly Inserted by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27,
1950>
 
Article 15 Where the purchaser of property devolving upon the State fails to pay the
purchase price or an installment thereof within a predetermined period, an administrative
fine equivalent to ten percent of the unpaid amount shall be collected. 
The administrative fine referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be deducted from the
payment already made, and any shortfall thereof shall be additionally collected.
 
Article 16 With respect to enterprises, associations, etc. whose property can be divided and
sold after the dissolution thereof pursuant to the proviso to Article 8 (1) 4 of the Act,
limited to cases where at least 2/3 of the stocks or shares of the relevant enterprise or
association, etc. are devolved upon the State, the Head of the Office of the Property
Custodian may dissolve such enterprise or association, etc. to divide and sell its property
with consent of the respective Minister having jurisdiction over the relevant property
(hereinafter referred to as the competent Minister). <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360,
May 27, 1950>
In applying the preceding paragraph, purchasers shall be selected in accordance with
Article 17 of the Act.
 
Article 17 Where any enterprise, association, etc. is dissolved pursuant to the preceding
Article, the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian shall publicly announce it without
delay, and have its resolution registered at the location of the headquarters and branch
office or business office of the relevant enterprise, association, etc. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 18 In order to liquidate an enterprise, association, etc. dissolved pursuant to Article 16,
a liquidation committee for the relevant enterprise, association, etc. (hereinafter referred to
as the “committee”) shall be established. 
 
Article 19 The committee shall consist of six liquidators.
The Prime Minister shall appoint or commission two liquidators respectively from each
Ministry related to the Office of the Property Custodian and from among the shareholders
of Korean nationality.
 
Article 20 The Head of the Office of the Property Custodian shall serve as the chairperson of
the committee. 
The chairperson shall represent the committee and exercise overall control over its affairs.
Where the chairperson has any extenuating circumstances, the liquidator designated by the
chairperson shall perform his/her duties on his/her behalf.
 
Article 21 The committee shall deliberate on and determine the following matters: 
1. Matters related to budget and settlement;
2. Matters related to loan repayments;
3. Matters related to petitions;
4. Matters related to dispositions for conversion of property;
5. Matters related to settling unliquidated accounts;
6. Other important matters for disposing of residual property.
 
Article 22 The chairperson shall convene and preside over the meetings of the committee. 
The chairperson shall determine the date, venue, and agenda items of a meeting, and
notify them to each liquidator three days prior to holding the meeting: Provided, That the
foregoing shall not apply in cases of urgency.
A majority of the liquidators of the committee shall constitute a quorum, and any decision
thereof shall require the concurring vote of a majority of those present.
The chairperson shall have the right to vote, and shall have the casting vote in cases of an
equal number of votes for and against.
 
Article 23 The chairperson shall prepare minutes to record a full account of a meeting and
the name of liquidators who attended the relevant meeting, and require them to affix their
seals thereon. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 24 The chairperson shall immediately inspect the status of the property of an
enterprise or association, etc. dissolved, and prepare a list of its property and balance
sheet and publicly announce them with the approval of the Prime Minister.
 
Article 25 Debts of an enterprise or association, etc. dissolved shall be repaid in a manner
determined by the committee. 
 
Article 26 Disposal of the residual property of an enterprise or association, etc. dissolved shall
be subject to approval of the Prime Minister.
 
Article 27 Where the business affairs for liquidation have been completed, the committee
shall prepare a settlement report without delay and obtain approval thereof from the
Prime Minister.
 
Article 28 The committee shall be dissolved upon completion of liquidation.
 
Article 29 Administrative matters related to liquidation, other than those provided for herein,
shall be processed by the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian. 
 
Article 29-2 Among the property devolving upon the State, in cases of an enterprise not
leased under Article 24 of the Act, a joint custodian therefor shall be appointed. 
Where the competent Minister intends to appoint joint custodians pursuant to the
preceding paragraph for an enterprise devolving upon the State that has appointed a sole
custodian as at the date this Decree is promulgated, at least 50 percent of the joint
custodians shall be appointed, upon recommendation by the Minister of Agriculture, Food
and Rural Affairs, preferentially from among those whose farmland has been purchased by
the State under the Farmland Reform Act.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29,
2008; Presidential Decree No. 24441, Mar. 23, 2013>
In cases of enterprises devolving upon the State that are operating the board of directors
system by appointing joint custodians as at the date this Decree is promulgated, the
competent Minister shall fill any vacancy thereof, upon recommendation by the Minister of
Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, by appointing a joint custodian among those whose
farmland has been purchased by the State under the Farmland Reform Act.<Amended by
Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29, 2008; Presidential Decree No. 24441, Mar. 23, 2013>
The appointment of joint custodians pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be
completed within six months from the promulgation date of this Decree.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Any person subject to purchase of his/her farmland by the State under the Farmland
Reform Act who intends to become a joint custodian pursuant to this Article, shall submit
an application to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs within five months
from the promulgation date of this Decree as prescribed by the Minister of Agriculture,
Food and Rural Affairs.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29, 2008; Presidential Decree
No. 21214, Dec. 31, 2008; Presidential Decree No. 24441, Mar. 23, 2013>
No person who fails to submit an application prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall
be recommended as a joint custodian.
Where the competent Minister intend to change a custodian or lessee of an enterprise
devolving  upon  the  State,  he/she  shall,  upon  recommendation  by  the  Minister  of
Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, preferentially appoint a new custodian or lessee, from
among those whose farmland has been purchased by the State under the Farmland
Reform Act.<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 20720, Feb. 29, 2008; Presidential Decree No. 24441,
Mar. 23, 2013>
[This Article Newly Inserted by Presidential Decree No. 527, Aug. 24, 1951]
 
Article 29-3 Where any person whose farmland has been purchased by the State under the
Farmland Reform Act purchases an enterprise devolving upon the State solely or jointly
with another person whose farmland is also subject to purchase by the State under the
Farmland Reform Act, he/she shall pay at least 90 percent of the total purchase price of
the relevant property devolving upon the State in farmland bonds; and where any person
whose farmland has been purchased by the State under the Farmland Reform Act
purchases an enterprise devolving upon the State jointly with another person whose
farmland is not subject to purchase by the State under the Farmland Reform Act, he/she
shall pay at least 50 percent of the total purchase price of the relevant property devolving
upon the State in farmland bonds. 
[This Article Newly Inserted by Presidential Decree No. 527, Aug. 24, 1951]
 
            SECTION 4 PROCEDURES FOR MANAGEMENT
 
Article 30 Where it is deemed impossible or inappropriate to sell any property devolving
upon the State pursuant to Article 16 of the Act, such property shall continue to be leased
to the former lessee or occupant in good faith.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 31 Any property devolving upon the State leased to a foreigner before this Decree
enters into force shall continue to be leased to such foreigner in good faith until any
separate action is taken. <Amended by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950>
 
Article 32 Where the competent Minister operates a board of directors by appointing joint
custodians pursuant to Article 30 of the Act, he/she may appoint one chief director and
multiple executive directors from among the members of the board of directors. 
Where necessary, a vice chief director may be appointed from among the members of the
board of directors.
Where the competent Minister appoints the chief director and executive directors or a vice
chief director pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall notify it to the Head of the Office of
the Property Custodian.
The chief director shall exercise overall control over the business affairs of the relevant
enterprise and represent it, and executive directors shall assist the chief director and
perform their assigned duties.
The vice chief director shall assist the chief director and perform his/her duties on his/her
behalf when the chief director has any extenuating circumstance.
 
Article 33 The board of directors shall consist of directors, and shall convene a meeting at
least once a month.
The chief director shall formulate the rules of the board of directors, and obtain approval
thereof from the competent Minister; the foregoing shall also apply when making any
amendment thereto.
The chief director shall prepare the minutes of the board of directors, and report it to the
competent Minister without delay.
 
Article 34 The following matters shall be determined in meetings of the board of directors: 
1. Matters related to formulating, amending, or repealing its rules;
2. Matters related to lawsuits;
3. Business plans, business performance reports, balance sheets, settlement reports, and
other important matters subject to approval or report;
4. Matters related to appointing or dismissing managers or those in higher positions;
5. Other important matters.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 35 With respect to enterprises operating the board of directors, the competent
Minister may, where necessary, assign up to three auditors other than directors. 
Where the competent Minister appoints auditors pursuant to the preceding paragraph,
he/she shall notify it to the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian.
The duties of auditors shall be as follows:
1. Property audit of the enterprise;
2. Audit of affairs performed by directors;
3. Presenting opinions by attending meetings of the board of directors;
4. Submitting to the competent Minister regular audit reports quarterly and provisional
audit reports concerning unexpected circumstances.
 
Article 36 Where the competent Minister appoints a lessee or custodian pursuant to Article
31 of the Act, he/she shall notify it to the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian. 
 
Article 37 When selecting a lessee or custodian of an enterprise or property devolving upon
the State, other than stocks and shares referred to in Article 31 of the Act, the Head of the
Office of the Property Custodian shall examine and determine the selection and notify it to
the competent Minister. 
 
Article 38 The custodian appointed pursuant to Article 31 of the Act shall submit to the
competent Minister business plans and statements of income and expenditure two months
prior to each half of a year, by dividing one year into two terms, and obtain approval
thereof from the competent Minister. 
When amending a business plan or a statement of income and expenditure prescribed in
the preceding paragraph, the custodian shall obtain approval thereof immediately.
Where the competent Minister grants approval pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall
consult with the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian.
 
Article 39 Any custodian appointed pursuant to Article 31 of the Act shall obtain prior
approval from the competent Minister regarding the following matters: Provided, That any
matter approved pursuant to Article 38 shall be excluded herefrom: <Amended by Presidential
Decree No. 28946, Jun. 5, 2018>
1. Purchasing, relocating, subleasing, transferring, or repairing land, buildings, machines,
and equipment;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
2. Disposing of raw materials;
3. Disbursing donations, social expenses, or bonuses;
4. Borrowing funds;
5. Changing business affairs.
Subparagraphs 1 and 5 of the preceding paragraph shall also apply to lessees.
Where the competent Minister grants approval pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2), he/she
shall consult with the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian.
 
Article 40 Any custodian appointed pursuant to Article 31 of the Act shall submit the
following documents to the competent Minister: business plans and statements of income
and expenditure semiannually, by dividing one year into two terms; and balance sheets
and income statements every three months. 
Where the competent Minister receives any report prescribed in the preceding paragraph,
he/she shall notify it to the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian.
 
Article 41 The Head of the Office of the Property Custodian may audit the accounts of
enterprises devolving upon the State. 
Where it is necessary to audit the accounts of enterprises devolving upon the State, the
competent Minister may request that the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian
perform the audit.
 
Article 42 The fourth immediately preceding Article shall apply mutatis mutandis to an
enterprise or association, etc. whose stocks or shares are devolved upon the State. 
 
Article 43 Where it is necessary to designate any property devolving upon the State as State
property, public property, State enterprise, or public enterprise or where it is necessary to
lease, sell, or manage and operate any property devolving upon the State, the competent
Minister and the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian may require the relevant
public officials to inspect the location of the relevant property devolving upon the State or
the relevant office for the purpose of examining documents, books, and other articles or
asking questions. 
In applying the preceding paragraph, the relevant public official shall carry a certificate
indicating his/her authority.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 44 Where any person, in receipt of an order to return property devolving upon the
State prescribed in Article 35 of the Act, refuses to comply with such order, the Head of
the Office of the Property Custodian may hold a meeting of the competent Minister, and
refer the case to a policy agency for the evacuation or transfer of the relevant property. 
 
Article 45 Where a sale contract or a lease contract has been concluded or canceled or
where any person has withdrawn from a sale contract or a lease contract, the Head of the
Office of the Property Custodian shall notify it to the competent Minister. 
Prior  to  canceling  any  sale  contract  or  lease  contract  prescribed  in  the  preceding
paragraph, the examination and resolution thereon shall be made by the Property
Custodianship Committee.<Newly  Inserted  by  Presidential  Decree  No.  360,  May  27,  1950>
 
Article 46 The competent Minister and the Head of the Office of the Property Custodian may
partially delegate his/her authority to the Seoul Metropolitan City Mayor, Do Governor, or
director-general for property custodianship of the Seoul Metropolitan City or any Do. 
 
Article 46-2 Any important matter regarding the disposal of property devolving upon the
State shall be subject to approval from the President via the Prime Minister. 
[This Article Newly Inserted by Presidential Decree No. 360, May 27, 1950]
 
            SECTION 5 (Articles 47 through 56) Deleted.
 
Article 47 Deleted.
 
Article 48 Deleted.
 
Article 49 Deleted.
 
Article 50 Deleted.
 
Article 51 Deleted.
 
Article 52 Deleted.
 
Article 53 Deleted.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            14                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 54 Deleted.
 
Article 55 Deleted.
 
Article 56 Deleted.
 
            SECTION 6 PENALTY PROVISIONS
 
Article 57 Any person who fails to obtain approval, in violation of Article 33 (2), 38, or 39,
shall be punished by a fine of at least 30,000 won and up to 80,000 won.
 
Article 58 Any person who fails to submit a prescribed report, balance sheet, or income
statement, in violation of Article 33 (3), 35 (3) 4, or 40 (1), or who makes a false report,
shall be punished by a fine of at least 20,000 won and up to 50,000 won.
 
Article 59 Any of the following persons shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for up
to six months or by a fine of at least 50,000 won and up to 100,000 won:
1.  Any  person  who  has  evaded,  refused,  or  interfered  with  an  audit,  inspection,
examination, or question made by the relevant public officials pursuant to Article 41 or
43, or who has made a false statement;
2. Any person who has refused, interfered with, or evaded the return of property devolving
upon the State, in violation of Article 44.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
