 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT
[Enforcement Date 27. Jan, 2001.] [Presidential Decree No.17111, 27. Jan, 2001.,
Partial Amendment]
 ()null
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT
[Enforcement Date 27. Jan, 2001.] [Presidential Decree No.17111, 27. Jan, 2001., Partial Amendment]
 
            CHAPTER Ⅰ  GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 (Purpose)
The propose of this Decree is to provide matters delegated by the Urban Planning Act and
other matters necessary to implement the delegated matters.
 
Article 2 (Urban Infrastructures) (1) The term “facilities as prescribed by the Presidential
Decree” in subparagraph 6 of Article 3 of the Urban Planning Act (hereinafter referred to
as the “Act”) means the facilities (including incidental facilities and convenience facilities
necessary for the display of functions and utilization of the facilities concerned) falling
under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Traffic facilities: roads, railways, harbors, parking lots, automobile depots, tracks,
cableways, inspection facilities for automobiles and construction machinery, and driving-
teaching institutes for automobiles and construction machinery;
2.  Urban  space  facilities:  squares  or  plazas,  parks,  green  areas,  amusement  parks,
observation  towers  and  public  lands;
3. Distribution and supply facilities: distribution business facilities, water and electricity
supply facilities and equipment, gas supply facilities, broadcasting and communications
facilities, utility tunnels, markets, oil-storage and oil-supply facilities and heat supply
facilities;
4. Public cultural facilities: schools, playgrounds, public buildings, cultural facilities, libraries,
research facilities, social welfare facilities, public vocational training facilities and juvenile
training facilities;
5. Disaster-prevention facilities: rivers, detention ponds, reservoirs, fire prevention facilities,
windbreak facilities, waterproof facilities, erosion-control facilities and tide-control
facilities; and
6. Health and sanitary facilities: sewages, crematoriums, cemeteries, waste treatment
facilities, slaughterhouses, funeral parlors, facilities for the prevention of water quality
from being contaminated, general medical facilities and car-disposal places.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(2) Roads, railways, automobile depots, squares or plazas, parks and green areas from
among the urban infrastructures referred to in paragraph (2) may be subdivided into what
falls under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Roads:
(a) General roads;
(b) Roads for exclusive use by automobiles;
(c) Roads for exclusive use by pedestrians;
(d) Roads for exclusive use by bicycles;
(e) Elevated highways; and
(f) Underground roads;
2. Railways:
(a) General railways;
(b) Urban railways; and
(c) High-speed railways;
3. Automobile depots:
(a) Passenger automobile terminals;
(b) Cargo terminals; and
(c) Public garages;
4. Squares:
(a) Traffic squares;
(b) Beauty squares;
(c) Underground squares; and
(d) Squares attached to building structures;
5. Parks: and
(a) Children parks;
(b) Neighborhood parks;
(c) Urban nature parks;
(d) Grave parks; and
(e) Sports parks;
6. Green areas:
(a) Buffer green areas; and
(b) Scenic green areas.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) The specific scope of the urban infrastructures referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall be determined by the ordinance of the Minister of Construction and Transportation.
 
Article 3 (Wide-Area Facilities)
The term “facilities prescribed by the Presidential Decree” referred to in subparagraph 8 of
Article 3 of the Act means the facilities falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Facilities covering the jurisdictional areas of not less than two Special Metropolitan City,
the Metropolitan City and Si or Gun (excluding any Gun under the jurisdictional area of
the Metropolitan City; hereafter the same shall apply): roads, railways, canals, squares or
plazas, green areas, water, electricity supply facilities, gas supply facilities and equipment,
broadcasting and communications facilities, utility tunnels, facilities for oil storage and
supply, heat supply facilities, rivers and sewages (excluding sewage terminal treatment
facilities); and
2. Facilities utilized jointly by not less than two Special Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan
City and Si or Kun: harbors, airports, automobile depots, parks, amusement parks,
distribution business facilities, playgrounds, detention ponds, sewages (limited to sewage
terminal treatment facilities), crematoriums, cemeteries, waste treatment facilities,
slaughterhouses, facilities for the prevention of water quality from being contaminated
and car disposal places.
 
Article 4 (Public Facilities)
The term “other public facilities prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in subparagraph 15
of  Article  3  of  the  Act  means  the  facilities  falling  under  each  of  the  following
subparagraphs:
1. Railways;
2. Harbors;
3. Airports;
4. Parking lots (limited to the parking lots installed by administrative agencies);
5. Canals;
6. Squares or plazas;
7. Green areas;
8. Public vacant lands;
9. Water;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
10. Utility tunnels;
11. Playgrounds (limited to the playgrounds installed by administrative agencies);
12. Rivers;
13. Detention ponds;
14. Reservoirs (limited to the reservoirs constructed by administrative agencies);
15. Fire-prevention facilities and equipment;
16. Windbreak facilities and equipment;
17. Waterproof facilities;
18. Erosion control facilities and equipment;
19. Tide-control facilities and equipment;
20. Sewages;
21. Crematoriums (limited to the crematoriums constructed by administrative agencies);
and
22. Cemeteries (limited to the cemeteries constructed by administrative agencies).
 
Article 5 (Overall Measures for Urban Development) (1) The Minister of Construction and
Transportation may, when he intends to work out overall measures for urban development
in accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Act, ask heads of administrative agencies concerned
for data necessary to work out such measures.
(2) The term “other matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 4 (2) 6 of the
Act means the matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Matters relating to the assessment of urban problems;
2. Matters relating to the evaluation of the established urban policies;
3. Matters relating to model cities (hereinafter referred to as the “model cities”) under
Article 5 (1) of the Act; and
4. Other matters relating to policy measures for urban development.
 
Article 6 (Designation of Model Cities) (1) The term “other areas prescribed by the
Presidential Decree” in Article 5 (1) of the Act means areas such as education, safety, traffic
and scene.
(2) Any model city shall be fit for the standards falling under each of the following
subparagraphs:
1. The designation of any model city shall contribute to the balanced development of
regions;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
2. The designation of any model city shall have a highly approving response from
residents;
3. Any project necessary to attain the objective of designating a model city (hereinafter
referred to as “model city project”) shall be participated in by residents;
4. A plan to secure financial resources for any model city project shall be appropriate and
implementable; and
5. Any model city project shall be in harmony with any overall measures for urban
development.
(3) The Minister of Construction and Transportation may set detailed standards for
designating any model city by field.
(4) The head of any central administrative agency concerned, the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor or Do governor (hereinafter referred to as the
“Mayor/Do governor”) shall, when he intends to file an application for designating a model
city with the Minister of Construction and Transportation in accordance with Article 5 (1) of
the Act, seek opinions of the head of local government concerned after listening to the
opinions of residents through questionnaires and public perusals, etc.
(5) The Mayor/Do governor shall, when he intends to file an application for designating a
model city with the Minister of Construction and Transportation in accordance with Article
5 (1) of the Act, go through advices of the Urban Planning Committee (hereinafter referred
to as the City/Do Urban Planning Committee”) established by the Special Metropolitan
City, the Metropolitan City or Do (hereinafter referred to as the “City/ Do”).
(6) The head of any central administrative agency concerned or the Mayor/Do shall, when
he intends to file an application for designating a model city in accordance with Article 5
(1) of the Act, furnish the document falling under each of the following subparagraphs to
the Minister of Construction and Transportation:
1. A document explaining the conformity of the proposed model city with the designation
standards as prescribed in paragraphs (2) and (3);
2. A document giving details of budget and manpower, etc. which the head of the central
administrative  agency  concerned  or  the  Mayor/  Do  governor,  who  is  filing  such
application,  can  directly  provide;
3. A document detailing the outcome of the resident opinions and the opinion of the local
government concerned as prescribed in paragraph (4); and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
4. A document showing the outcome of advices given by the City/Do Urban Planning
Committee as prescribed in paragraph (5).
(7) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall, when he intends to designate a
model city, shall go through the deliberation by the Central Urban Planning Committee
established pursuant to Article 77 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the “Central Urban
Planning Committee”) after consulting with the heads of central administrative agencies
concerned.
(8) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall, when he designates any model
city, publish the objective of designation, the designated area and the designated city, etc.
in the Official Gazette and file a notice thereof with each of the heads of administrative
agencies concerned.
 
Article 7 (Public Invitation for Model City) (1) In designating any model city in accordance
with Article 5 (1) of the Act, the Minister of Construction and Transportation may, if
necessary, publically invite an application for designating a model city.
(2) The person who is eligible for the public invitation referred to in paragraph (1) shall be
the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor and the head of Si/Gun
(including the head of any Gun under the jurisdictional area of the Metropolitan City) or
the head of Gu (referring to the head of Gu of the autonomous district; hereinafter the
same shall apply).
(3) The Minister of Construction and Transportation may, when it is deemed necessary to
perform smoothly the business with respect to the public invitation and evaluation of
model city, seek advices from specialized institutions or entrust survey and research to
such specialized institutions.
 
Article 8 (Formulation and Implementation of Plan for Model City Project) (1) The Special
Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor and the head of Si/Gun (including
the head of Gun in the jurisdictional area of the Metropolitan City; hereafter the same in
this Article shall apply) or the head of Gu shall draw up and implement a plan for the
model city project ((hereinafter referred to as the “plan for the model city project”)
according to the classification falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. In case that any model city is confined to the jurisdictional area of Si/Gun (including Gun
in the jurisdictional area of the Metropolitan City; hereafter the same in this Article shall
apply) or  Gu, the head of Si/Gun/Gu shall draw up and implement the plan for the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
model city project; and
2. In other case, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor or the Metropolitan City Mayor shall
draw up and implement the plan for the model city project.
(2) The plan for the model city project shall include the matters falling under each of the
following subparagraphs:
1. Matters relating to the goal and strategy of the plan for the model city project and a
system under which the plan for the model city project is implemented;
2. Matters relating to the adjustment and update of related plans, such as the urban
planning, etc., necessary for implementing the model city project;
3. Matters relating to urban planning projects necessary for implementing the model city
project;
4. Matters relating to the securing of financial resources necessary for implementing the
model city project; and
5. Other matters necessary for smoothly implementing the model city project.
(3) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor or the head of
Si/Gun/Gu shall, when he intends to draw up a plan for the model city project, seek the
opinions of residents through questionnaires and public perusals.
(4) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor or the head of
Si/Gun/Gu shall, when he intends to draw up a plan for the model city project, consult with
the Minister of Construction and Transportation (in the case of any model city designated
at the request of the head of a central administrative agency concerned or the Mayor/Do
governor, referring to any institution which has requested such designation).
(5) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor or the head of
Si/Gun/Gu shall, when he draws up a plan for the model city project in accordance with
paragraph (1), publish principal contents of such plan in the public bulletin of the local
government concerned and then furnish a copy of the publication to the Minister of
Construction and Transportation.
(6) The provisions of paragraphs (3) through (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis to altering
the plan for the model city project.
 
Article 9 (Standards for Supporting Model City) (1) The amount of subsidies or loans for the
model city under Article 5 (2) of the Act shall be extended within limits falling under each
of the following subparagraphs:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
1. Not more than 80 percent of expenses required for drawing up the plan for the model
city project; and
2.  Not  more  than  50  percent  of  costs  (excluding  any  compensation)  required  for
implementing  the  model  city  project.
(2) The head of a central administrative agency concerned or the Mayor/Do governor shall,
when he provides any model city with budget and manpower, etc. under Article 5 (2) of
the Act, shall notify the Minister of Construction and Transportation of details of the
assistance.
 
Article 10 (Assessment and Adjustment of Model City Project) (1) The Special Metropolitan
City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si/Gun (including the head of Gun in
the jurisdictional area of the Metropolitan City) or the head of Gu shall furnish the
progress of the plan for the model city project of the corresponding year to the Minister
of Construction and Transportation, the head of a central administrative agency, who has
requested the designation of the model city concerned or the Mayor/Do governor by the
end of each year.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation, the head of a central administrative
agency concerned or the Mayor/Do governor may, when it is deemed necessary to
implement smoothly the plan for the model city project as a result of analyzing the
progress of the model city project furnished under paragraph (1), may take measures to
request adjusting the plan for the model city project, scale back or expand the assistance
or cancel the designation of the model city, etc.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅱ  BASIC URBAN PLANNING
 
Article 11 (Basic Urban Planning)
The term “city prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in the proviso of Article 6 (1) of the
Act means the city located in areas other than Kyongki Province, which has the population
of not more than 100,000.
 
Article 12 (Contents of Basic Urban Planning)
The term “matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 7 (1) 6 of the Act means
the matters falling under each of the following subparagaphs:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
1. Matters relating to the basic direction of redevelopment projects and reconstruction
projects;
2. Matters relating to the development and facilitation of urban economy, industry, society
and culture;
3. Matters relating to the upgrades of urban traffic and physical distribution systems and
the development of urban information and communications;
4. Matters relating to the management of urban scenes and beautiful views;
5. Matters relating to the prevention of urban disasters and urban safety;
6. Matters relating to the upgrades and preservation of urban residential environment and
the increase of urban pleasantness; and
7. Matters relating to the securing of financial resources necessary for expanding urban
finances and implementing the basic urban planning.
 
Article 13 (Basic Survey for Basic Urban Planning) (1) The term “other matters prescribed by
the Presidential Decree” in Article 8 (1) of the Act means the matters falling under each of
the following subparagraphs:
1. Natural conditions such as weather, topography, resources , and ecology, etc.;
2. The current state and prospect of urban infrastructures and residential levels;
3. The occurrences and trends of damages caused by storms, floods and earthquakes
including other disasters;
4. Contents of other plans and projects related to the basic urban planning; and
5. Other Matters necessary for formulating the basic urban planning.
(2) In conducting the basic survey under Article 8 (1) of the Act, if the data compiled based
on previously conducted surveys and measurements exist, such data may be utilized.
(3) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun (excluding the head of Gun in the jurisdictional area of the Metropolitan City;
hereinafter the same shall apply) shall, if he intends to alter the basic urban planning,
survey and measure matters necessary for altering the basic urban planning from among
matters subject to the basic survey under Article 8 (1) of the Act.
(4) The term “other matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 8 (2) means
the matters of each subparagraph of paragraph (1).
 
Article 14 (Hearing for Formulation of Basic Urban Planning) (1) The Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
intends to hold a hearing in accordance with Article 9 (1) of the Act, publish the matters
falling under each of the following subparagraphs in dailies which are circulated mainly in
the areas of the Special Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan City, Si or Gun not less than
once prior to 14 days on which such hearing is held:
1. The objective of holding the hearing;
2. Time when and place where the hearing is held;
3. The Outline of the basic urban planning he intends to formulate; and
4. Other necessary matters.
(2) The hearing as prescribed in Article 9 (1) of the Act shall be held in each of the
jurisdictional area. Such hearing, if necessary, may be held in a subdivided jurisdictional
area.
(3) The hearing as prescribed in Article 9 (1) of the Act shall be presided over by a person
designated by the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head
of Si or the head of Gun.
(4) Matters necessary for holding the hearing other than the matters referred to in
paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be determined by the ordinance governing the urban
planning (hereinafter referred to as the “urban planning ordinance”) of the Special
Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan City. Si or Gun concerned.
 
Article 15 (Approval of Basic Urban Planning) (1) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he intends to get
approval of the basic urban planning in accordance with Article 10 (1) of the Act, furnish a
draft basic urban planning, accompanied by the documents falling under each of the
following subparagraphs, to the Minister of Construction and Transportation:
1. A document describing the outcome of the basic survey;
2. A document explaining the outcome of the hearing;
3. A document outlining the results of opinions expressed by the council members of the
local government concerned under Article 9 (2) of the Act;
4. A document explaining the results of advices in the event that the basis urban planning
went through advices of the Urban Planning Committee established by the local
government concerned; and
5. A document necessary for consultations with the heads of central administrative
agencies and deliberation by the Central Urban Planning Committee under Article 10 (2)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
of the Act.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation may, where the draft basic urban
planning furnished in accordance with paragraph (1) is found not to be fit for the
preparation standards and methods under Article 7 (3) of the Act, ask the Special
Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun
to supplement such draft basic planning.
(3) The publication as prescribed in Article 10 (4) of the Act shall be run in the public
bulletin of the local government concerned and offered for the public perusal for not less
than 30 days.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅲ  METROPOLITAN URBAN PLANNING
 
Article 16 (Designation of Metropolitan City Area)
The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall, when he intends to include part of
the jurisdictional areas of not less than two adjacent Special Metropolitan City, the
Metropolitan City, Si or Gun into the metropolitan city zone, shall make the inclusion
based on the jurisdictional unit area of  Gu, Gun (referring to Gun in the jurisdictional area
of the Metropolitan City), Eup or Myeon.
 
Article 17 (Composition and Operation of Metropolitan Urban Planning Council) (1) The
Minister of Construction and Transportation and the Mayor/Do governor may, when they
intend to jointly draw up a metropolitan urban planning under Article 12 (1) 2 and Article
12 (2) of the Act, establish and operate the Metropolitan Urban Planning Council to consult
with and seek advices from the Council with respect to the metropolitan urban planning.
<Amended by Presidential Decree No. 17111, Jan. 27, 2001>
(2) The Metropolitan Urban Planning Council under paragraph (1) shall consist of public
servants concerned and the persons of profound academic knowledge and experience in
the metropolitan city urban planning.
(3) Matters necessary for the composition and operation of the Metropolitan Urban
Planning Council shall be determined by the Minister of Construction and Transportation
and the Mayor/Do governor who are to jointly draw up the metropolitan urban planning
after making consultations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 18 (Contents of Metropolitan Urban Planning)
The term “matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 13 (1) 4 of the Act
means the matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Matters relating to the traffic system of the metropolitan city zone; and
2. Matters relating to spare spaces, beautiful views and the prevention of disasters in the
metropolitan city zone.
 
Article 19 (Approval of Metropolitan Urban Planning) (1) The Mayor/Do governor shall, when
he intends to get approval of the metropolitan urban planning under Article 16 (1) of the
Act, furnish a draft metropolitan urban planning, accompanied by the documents falling
under each of the following subparagraphs, to the Minister of Construction and
Transportation:
1. A document describing the results of the basic survey;
2. A document explaining the outcome of hearing;
3. A document detailing the outcome of listening to opinions of the local council of City or
Do, or the Mayor or the head of Gun under Article 15 (1) of the Act;
4.  A  document  explaining  the  results  of  advices  from  the  City/Do  Urban  Planning
Committee;  and
5. A document necessary for consultations with the heads of central administrative
agencies concerned and deliberation by the Central Urban Planning Committee under
Article 15 (1)of the Act.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation may, when the draft metropolitan
urban planning furnished under paragraph (1) is found not to be fit for the preparation
standards and preparation methods under Article 13 (2) of the Act, ask the Mayor/Do
governor to supplement such draft metropolitan urban planning.
(3) The publication as prescribed in Article 16 (4) of the Act shall be run in the public
bulletin of City/Do concerned and its public perusal shall be offered for not less than 30
days.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅳ  URBAN PLANNING
 
Article 20 (Preparations of Urban Planning Map and Explanatory Statement) (1) The urban
planning map from among the urban planning maps under Article 19 (2) of the Act shall

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
be prepared as a drawing on which urban planning matters are expressly indicated in a
topographical chart on a scale of 1/1,000 or 1/5,000 (including the numerical chart;
hereinafter the same shall apply).
(2) With respect to the urban planning map referred to in paragraph (1), if there are not
less than two urban planning maps, the general urban planning map (referring to the
drawing on which major urban planning matters are expressly indicated in the chart on a
sale of 1/25,000) may be included into the urban planning explanatory statement as
prescribed in Article 19 (2) of the Act.
 
Article 21 (Procedures for Dealing with Proposal) (1) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of  Gun, upon receiving proposals
from residents to be reflected in drafting an urban planning under Article 20 (1) of the Act,
notify the proponents of whether their proposals are reflected in drafting the urban
planning within 60 days from the date of proposal.
(2) In determining whether proposals from residents are reflected in drafting an urban
planning under Article 20 (1) of the Act, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun may, if necessary, seek advices
from the Urban Planning Committee established by the local government concerned.
(3) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun may, if the proposals from residents under Article 20 (1) of the Act are
reflected in drafting an urban planning, utilize urban planning maps and urban planning
explanatory statement accompanied by such proposals to draft the urban planning.
 
Article 22 (Drafting of Urban Planning) (1) The term “minor matters prescribed by the
Presidential Decree” in the proviso of Article 22 (1) of the Act means the matters of each
subparagraph of Article 24 (3) and each subparagraph of Article 24 (4).
(2) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun shall, when he intends to listen to opinions of residents with respect to the
drafting of an urban planning under Article 22 (4) of the Act, publish major points of the
draft urban planning not less than twice in dailies which are circulated mainly in the area
of the Special Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan City, Si or Gun concerned, and the
public perusal of the draft urban planning shall be offered for not less than 14 days.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            14                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) Any person who is not satisfied with contents of the draft urban planning published
under paragraph (2) may furnish the statement of his opinion to the Special Metropolitan
City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun within the
period of public perusal.
(4) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun shall examine whether the statement of opinion furnished under paragraph
(3) within 60 days from the date on which the public perusal period comes to an end shall
be reflected in drafting an urban planning and notify the person who has furnished such
statement of opinion of the results.
(5) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun shall, where he intends to reflect the statement of opinion furnished under
paragraph (3) in drafting an urban planning and the statement of opinion is found to be
an important matter prescribed by the urban planning ordinance, publish again the
contents of such urban planning and offer the public perusal of such urban planning to
seek the opinions of residents.
(6) The provisions of paragraphs (2) through (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
republication and re-public perusal under paragraph (5).
(7) The term “matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 22 (5) of the Act
means the matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs: Provided, That
matters of each subparagraph of Article 24 (3) and each subparagraph of Article 24 (4)
shall be excluded:
1. The designation or alteration designation of the areas, districts and zones under Articles
32 through 35 of the Act;
2. The determination or alteration determination of an urban planning with respect to the
installation, repair and upgrade of wide-area facilities included in the metropolitan urban
planning; and
3. The determination or alteration determination of an urban planning with respect to the
installation, repair and upgrade of urban infrastructures falling under any of the following
items:
(a) Main roads from among roads;
(b) Urban railroads from among railroads;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            15                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(c) Passenger terminals (limited to those for cross-country bus transport services) from
among automobile stops;
(d) Traffic squares connected to main roads from among public squares;
(e) Parks (excluding children parks);
(f) Distribution business facilities and equipment;
(g) Universities from among schools;
(h) Integrated playgrounds and golf courses from among playgrounds;
(i) Buildings of local governments from among public buildings;
(j) Sewerage (limited to sewerage terminal disposal facilities);
(k) Crematoriums;
(l) Cemeteries;
(m) Waste treatment facilities; and
(n) Facilities for prevention of water quality from being contaminated.
 
Article 23 (Application for Deciding on Urban Planning)
The head of Si or the head of Gun (referring to the Mayor/Do governor in case that an
application is filed for deciding on the urban planning under subparagraphs 2 through 4 of
Article 23 of the Act) shall, when he intends to file an application for deciding on an urban
planning in accordance with Article 23 of the Act, furnish urban planning maps and
explanatory statement under Article 19 (2) of the Act, accompanied by Documents falling
under each of the following subparagraphs, to the Mayor/Do governor (referring to The
Minister of Construction and Transportation in case that an application is filed for deciding
on an urban planning falling under any of subparagraphs 2 through 4 of Article 23 of the
Act):
1. A document describing the result of listening to the opinions of residents under Article
22 (1) of the Act;
2. A document explaining the result of listening the opinions of the local council under
Article 22 (5) of the Act;
3. A document describing the advices of the Urban Planning Committee of the local
government concerned if such advices sought;
4. A document necessary for consultations with the heads of administrative agencies
concerned under Article 24 (1) of the Act (the results of prior consultations with the
heads of administrative agencies under Article 29 (2) of the Act if such consultations

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            16                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
held); and
5. A document necessary for deliberations by the Central Urban Planning Committee or the
City/Do Urban Planning Committee.
 
Article 24 (Decision on Urban Planning) (1) The term “urban planning concerning important
matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 24 (2) of the Act means the urban
planning falling under any of the following subparagraphs: Provided, That matters of each
subparagraph of paragraph (3) and each subparagraph of paragraph (4), and matters
about which consultations have been made in advance with the Minister of Construction
and Transportation in accordance with related Acts and subordinate statutes shall be
excluded:
1. An urban planning drafted by the Do governor in connection with a metropolitan urban
planning;
2. An urban planning falling under any of the following items, on which a decision is first
made with respect to an area after such area results from the lifting of a development
control area: and
(a) An urban planning concerning the designation of area and district;
(b) An urban planning concerning the designation of a district planning area; and
(c) An urban planning concerning the installation, repair and upgrade of an urban
infrastructure;
3. An urban planning determined by the ordinance of the Minister of Construction and
Transportation from among urban plannings with respect to the installations, repairs and
upgrades of urban infrastructures covering not less than two City/Do.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor shall, when
he intends to seek opinions of the Construction Committee with respect to a draft district
planning under the proviso of Article 24 (3) of the Act, shall ask the Construction
Committee to present such opinions within a fixed period of not less than 14 days unless
special circumstances exist that make it impossible for him to get such opinions within
such period.
(3) In the case falling under any of the following subparagraphs, any urban planning
(excluding any district planning) may be altered without making consultations with the
heads  of  administrative  agencies  concerned,  consultations  with  the  Minister  of
Construction and Transportation and going through deliberation by the Urban Planning

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            17                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Committee under the proviso of Article 24 (5) of the Act:
1. Where any facility site which is not more than 1/20 of the unit urban planning facility
site area (excluding any park and any green area, and limited to the case where, in case
of road, the starting point and the terminal point are not altered and the central lines do
not deviate from the previously determined road);
2. Where the location of urban planning facilities are slightly changed on the grounds of
topographical reasons or any facility site is inevitably changed on the grounds of the
surface of slopes, etc.;
3. Where a decision is made on detailed facilities or such detailed facilities are altered
without changing the previously determined urban planning facility site;
4. Where an urban planning with respect to urban planning areas and harbors is altered as
an urban area is designated under the Act on the Utilization and Management of the
National Territory and public waters adjacent to an urban planning area are designated
as a harbor area or a fishing port area under the Harbor Act and the Fishery Harbor Act;
5. An urban planning area, district, zone or the district planning area is altered as an urban
area is reduced under subparagraph 1 of Article 6 of the Act on the Utilization and
Management of the National Territory; and
6. Where minor matters prescribed by the ordinance of the Minister of Construction and
Transportation are altered.
(4) Minor matters from among the district planning may be altered without making
consultations with the heads of administrative agencies concerned, consultations with the
Minister  of  Construction  and  Transportation,  seeking  opinions  of  the  Construction
Committee or going through deliberation by the City/Do Urban Planning Committee
according to the classification falling under each of the following subparagraphs under the
proviso of Article 24 (5) of the Act:
1. In the case falling under any of the following items, the consultations with the heads of
administrative agencies concerned and the Minister of Construction and Transportation
may be omitted: and
(a) Where the decided alteration of an area, district or urban planning facilities on which a
decision has been made according to a district planning is the alteration falling under any
of each subparagraph of paragraph (3);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            18                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(b) Where not more than 10/100 of any household area or any lot area is altered;
(c) Where not more than 10/100 of the height of a building is altered;
(d) Where the size of a lot area falling under any of each item of Article 41 (2) 3 and a lot
leveling plan are altered;
(e) Where not more than one meter of the building line is altered;
(f) Where the arrangement, form or color of a building is altered; and
(g) Where other minor matters prescribed by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Construction
and Transportation are altered;
2. In the case falling under any of each item of subparagraph 1 and in the event that the
urban planning ordinance prescribes, consultations with the heads of administrative
agencies concerned and with the Minister of Construction and Transportation, listening
to opinion of the Construction Committee and deliberation by the Urban Planning
Committee may be omitted.
(5) The publication of a decision made on any urban planning under Article 24 (6) of the
Act shall be made in a manner that the matters falling under each of the following
subparagraphs are run in the Official Gazette:
1.  The  point  that  the  urban  planning  concerned  falls  under  any  of  each  item  of
subparagraph  3  of  Article  3  of  the  Act;
2. Location;
3. Area and sale; and
4. Other matters prescribed by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Construction and
Transportation.
(6) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor or the Metropolitan City Mayor shall, when he
publishes a decision on an urban planning which includes the jurisdictional area of other
Special Metropolitan City, Metropolitan City, Si or  Gu, furnish related documents to such
other Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun.
 
Article 25 (Special Case for Construction Work under Way) (1) The continued implementation
of any project or any construction work which already starts at the time that an urban
planning is decided with respect to the designation of a development restriction area shall
be governed by the Act on Special Measures for Designation and Management of
Development Restriction Area.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            19                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(2) Any person who already starts any project or any construction work at the time that an
urban planning is decided with respect to the designation of an area to be created into a
street shall, when he intends to continue such project or such construction work, report
details of such project or such construction work to the competent Special Metropolitan
City Mayor, the competent Metropolitan City Mayor, the competent head of Si or the
competent head of Gun within 3 months from the date on which the decision of such
urban planning with respect to the designation of an area to be created into a street is
published under the proviso of Article 25 (2) of the Act.
(3) Where the act of making the report in accordance with paragraph (2) is intended to
alter the form and quality of land for the purpose of constructing a building, any person
who intends to get permission for constructing such building shall file an application for
such permission within 3 months from the date on which the work of altering the form
and quality of such land is completed.
 
Article 26 (Methods for Making and Publishing Topographical Drawings) (1) Topographical
drawings under Article 26 (1) of the Act shall be made as drawings on a scale of 1/500
through 1/1,500 (in case of a green area and a forest in the development restriction area,
such topographical drawings may be made as drawings on a scale of 1/3,000 through
1/6,000): Provided, That in the event that the boundary of land, which is intended to be
published, conforms to the boundary of an administrative area and in the case of an area
on which an urban planning project, an industrial complex construction project or a
housing site development project is completed, the copies of land registration maps may
be deemed topographical drawings.
(2) In making the topographical drawings referred to in paragraph (1), when topographical
maps are nonexistent, the drawings of submarine maps may be deemed topographical
maps.
(3) In the event that not less than two drawings of paragraphs (1) and (2) are existent, an
overall map on a scale of 1/5,000 may be separately attached: Provided, That if it is difficult
to make an overall map on a scale of 1/5,000, an overall map on a scale of 1/3,000
through 1/6,000 may be separately attached.
(4) The term “period prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 26 (2)of the Act
means 30 days.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            20                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(5) The publication of topographical drawings under Article 26 (4) of the Act shall be made
in the Official Gazette.
(6) The term “scale prescribed by the Presidential Decree” means the scale of 1/500
through 1/1,500 (in the case of a green area and a forest in the development control area,
the scale of 1/3,000 through 1/6,000).
 
Article 27 (Method of Publishing Invalidation)
The invalidation of an urban planning decision under Article 27 (2) of the Act shall be
published in a manner that the date of invalidation, the cause of invalidation and the
contents of the urban planning concerned are run in the Official Gazette.
 
Article 28 (Upgrades of Urban Planning) (1) In upgrading the urban planning under Article 28
of the Act, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of
Si or the head of Gun shall, when an urban planning facility project with respect to the
installation of urban planning facilities is not implemented within 10 years from the date
on which an urban planning decision made with respect to urban planning facilities
(hereinafter referred to as “urban planning facility decision”) was published, examine the
appropriateness of the urban planning facility decision and reflect the results in drafting an
urban planning.
(2) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of  Si, who
has not mapped out a basic urban planning in accordance with the proviso of Article 6 (1)
of the Act, shall include the long-term development plan in the planning explanatory
statement as prescribed in Article 19 (2) of the Act when he upgrades the urban planning
in accordance with Article 28 of the Act, and hold hearings to listen to the opinions of
residents with respect to such inclusion.
 
Article 29 (Subdivision of Area)
The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor may subdivide
the residential area, the commercial area, the industrial area and the green area into what
falls under each of the following subparagraphs as a urban planning decision under Article
32 (2) of the Act:
1. Residential area:
(a)  Exclusive  residential  area:  an  area  necessary  to  protect  the  better  residential
environment:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            21                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(i) The class-Ⅰ exclusive residential area; an area necessary to protect the better residential
environment of single-family houses; and
(ii) The class-Ⅱ exclusive residential area; an area necessary to protect the residential
environment of apartments;
(b)  General  residential  area;  an  area  necessary  to  create  a  convenient  residential
environment:  and
(i) The class-Ⅰ general residential area; an area necessary to create a convenient residential
environment for low-story houses;
(ii) The class-Ⅱ general residential area; an area necessary to create a convenient
residential environment for mid-story houses; and
(iii) The class-Ⅲ general residential area; an area necessary to create a convenient
residential environment for mid-highstory houses;
(c) Quasi residential area; an area necessary to supplement commercial and business
functions focused on the residential function;
2. Commercial Area:
(a) Central commercial area; an area necessary to expand business and commercial
functions in the center or near center of a city;
(b) General commercial area; an area necessary to take general commercial and business
functions;
(c) Neighboring commercial area; an area necessary to render services and supply goods in
the neighboring area; and
(d) Distribution business area; an area necessary to enhance the distribution functions
among cities and regions;
3. Industrial area: and
(a) Exclusive industrial area; an area necessary to keep mainly the heavy and chemical
industry and pollutive industries;
(b) General industrial area; an area necessary to keep environmentfriendly industries; and
(c) Quasi industrial area; an area necessary to keep light industries and other industries,
and also supplement the residential, commercial and business functions;
4. Green area:
(a) Preservation green area; an area necessary to preserve natural environment, beautiful
views, forest and green space;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            22                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(b) Production green area; an area necessary to be kept from development mainly for
agricultural production; and
(c) Natural green area; an area which can, if inevitable, be developed on a limited base
within the scope of not undermining the preservation of the green space.
 
Article 30 (Designation of District) (1) The term “other district prescribed by the Presidential
Decree” in Article 33 (1) 10 of the Act means the district falling under each of the following
subparagraphs:
1. Apartment district; a district necessary to build and manage collectively apartments
under an apartment district development project in accordance with Articles 20 through
24 of the Housing Construction Promotion Act; and
2. Amusement district; a district necessary to collectivize amusement facilities for the
purpose of protecting the environment of other areas.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor may
subdivide the beautiful-view district, the ancient-city district, the preservation district, the
facility-protection district and the village district into what falls under each of the following
subparagraphs:
1. Beautiful-view district:
(a) Central beautiful-view district; a district necessary to maintain and manage the beautiful
view of the district which has the highutilization of land;
(b) Historical and cultural beautiful-view district; a district necessary to maintain and
manage historical relics and traditional structures, etc.; and
(c) General beautiful-view district; a district which is other than the central beautiful-view
district and the historical and cultural beautiful-view district and necessary to maintain and
manage beautiful views;
2. Ancient-city district:
(a) Highest ancient-city district; a district necessary to protect the environment and
beautiful views of a city and set the highest limit to the height of buildings for the purpose
of preventing overpopulation; and
(b) Lowest ancient-city district; a district necessary to set the lowest limit to the height of
buildings for the purpose of sophisticating land utilization and protecting urban beautiful
views;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            23                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
3. Preservation area:
(a) Cultural resources preservation district; a district necessary to protect cultural properties
and an area which is of high cultural values;
(b) Major facility preservation district; a district necessary to protect and preserve major
facilities for the purpose of national defense; and
(c) Ecosystem preservation district; a district necessary to protect and preserve the habitats
of animals, etc. in a city;
4. Facility protection district: and
(a) School facility protection district; a district necessary to protect and maintain the
educational environment of school;
(b) Public facility protection district; a district necessary to protect public facilities and
efficiently perform the functions of public business;
(c) Harbor facility protection district; a district necessary to perform efficiently the functions
of harbors, and manage and operate harbor facilities; and
(d) Airport facility protection district; a district necessary to protect airport facilities and
ensure the safe navigation of aircraft;
5. Village district:
(a) Natural village district; a district necessary to upgrade villages in the green area; and
(b) Collective village district; a district necessary to upgrade villages in the development
control area.
(3) The Mayor/Do governor may subdivide the district falling under each of the following
subparagraphs in an urban planning decision as prescribed by the ordinance of City/Do
under Article 33 (2) of the Act:
1. The beautiful-view district under Article 33 (1) 1 of the Act; and
2. The development-control district under Article 33 (1) 9 of the Act.
 
Article 31 (Designation of Urbanization Adjustment District) (1) The term “certain period
prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 35 (1) of the Act means a period of not
less than 5 years to not more than 20 years.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall, when he intends to designate an
urbanization adjustment district in accordance with Article 35 (1) of the Act, fix an
urbanization reservation period taking into account the movement of population, the
current utilization of land and the progress of industrial development, etc. in the urban

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            24                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
planning district concerned.
(3) The invalidation of the designation of any urbanization adjustment district under Article
35 (2) of the Act shall be published in a manner that the date of invalidation, the cause of
invalidation and the details of the urban planning are run in the Official Gazette.
 
Article 32 (Installation and Management of Urban Planning Facilities) (1) The term “urban
infrastructure prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in the proviso of Article 36 (1) of the
Act means facilities falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Facilities for testing automobiles and construction machinery, drivingreaching institutes
for automobiles and construction machinery, observation towers, public vacant land,
broadcasting  and  communications  facilities,  markets,  heat-supply  facilities  and
equipment, public buildings, cultural facilities, libraries, research facilities, social welfare
facilities, public vocational training facilities, juvenile training facilities, reservoirs, fire-
prevention facilities, windbreak facilities and equipment, waterproof facilities and
equipment, erosioncontrol facilities and equipment, tide-control facilities, funeral parlors,
general medical facilities and car disposal places;
2. Urban infrastructure in parks, the occupation and use of which require permission under
the provisions of the Urban Park Act; and
3. Other facilities prescribed by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Construction and
Transportation.
(2) Urban planning facilities managed by the State in accordance with Article 36 (4) of the
Act shall be managed by any management agency under Article 6 of the State Properties
Act.
 
Article 33 (Listening to Opinion with Respect to Installation of Utility Tunnels) (1) The
implementer of an urban planning project, who is an administrative agency, shall, when he
intends to install utility tunnels, determine the matters falling under each of the following
subparagraphs, and notify in advance the managers of electric lines, gas pipes, tapwater
pipes, sewage pipes, communications lines, telecommunications circuit facilities and
equipment, heat-transport pipes, etc. to be accommodated by planned utility tunnels
(hereinafter referred to as “persons planned to occupy and use utility tunnels”):
1. Location;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            25                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
2. Structure;
3. Details of persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels concerned;
4. Outline of the occupation and use of the utility tunnels by persons planned to occupy
and use the tunnel utilities;
5. Matters relating to costs required for constructing the tunnel utilities and the sharing of
such costs; and
6. Date on the construction work is scheduled to start and date on which such construction
work is scheduled to be completes.
(2) The persons planned to occupy and use utility tunnels may, upon receiving the notice
with respect to the construction work of utility tunnels under paragraph (1), submit the
statement of their opinions thereof by a time limit fixed by the implementer of an urban
planning project, who is an administrative agency.
(3) The implementer of an urban planning project, who is an administrative agency, shall,
upon receiving the statement of opinions under paragraph (2), attach it to an application
for authorizing an implementation plan for an urban planning project.
 
Article 34 (Installation of Facilities in Utility Tunnels) (1) The implementer of an urban
planning project, who is an administrative agency, shall, when he completes the
construction work of his utility tunnels, promptly fix a period for which the occupation
work of installing facilities in the utility tunnels is carried out and notify each of the
persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels of such period upon the completion
of the construction work under Article 70 of the Act.
(2) The persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels shall install their facilities in
the utility tunnels within the fixed period of the occupation work referred to in paragraph
(1): Provided, That in the event that special circumstances make it impossible for them to
complete the occupation work within the fixed period, they shall consult in advance the
implementer of the urban planning project, who is an administrative agency.
(3) The persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels shall remove previous
facilities which are out of use as a result of the installation of new facilities in the utility
tunnels within a period fixed by the implementer of an urban planning project, who is an
administrative agency and restore the ordinal state to roads.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            26                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 35 (Costs for Constructing Utility Tunnels) (1) Costs required for constructing the
utility tunnels under Article 37 (2) of the Act shall be what falls under each of the following
subparagraphs: Provided, That if any subsidies are provided in accordance with Article 76
of the Act, the amount of such subsidies shall be deducted:
1. Construction costs;
2. Internal work costs;
3. Measurement and design costs for the construction work;
4. Compensation costs if any compensation is required by the construction work;
5. Costs required for installing miscellaneous facilities of the utility tunnels; and
6. If loans are extended under Article 76 of the Act, the amount equivalent to the interest
on such loans.
(2) The percentage of costs required for the construction work of the utility tunnels, which
has to be borne by the persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels, shall be
determined by the planned occupation area of the utility tunnels.
(3) The implementer of an urban planning project, who is an administrative agency, shall
notify the persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels of the payment of charges
computed according to the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) immediately after the
implementation plan for an urban planning project which includes the construction work of
the utility tunnels is authorized or published.
(4) The persons planned to occupy and use the utility tunnels shall, upon receiving the
notice with respect to the payment of charges under paragraph (3), pay not less than a
third of such charges prior to the start of the construction work of the utility tunnels and
the balance shall be paid before their facilities are installed in the utility tunnels under
Article 34 (1) of the Act.
 
Article 36 (Management of Utility Tunnels) (1) The utility tunnels shall be managed by the
Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head
of Gun.
(2) The Special Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan City, Si or Gun shall establish the Utility
Tunnels Management Council (hereinafter referred to as the “Utility Tunnels Management
Council” in this Article) to counsel the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan
City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun about important matters concerning the
management of the utility tunnels such as the safety check of the utility tunnels, upgrades

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            27                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
of facilities and the bearing of management costs, etc.
(3)  The  Utility  Tunnels  Management  Council  shall  consist  of  civil  servants  of  local
governments in charge of managing the utility tunnels, fire officers, employees of any
person who occupies and uses the utility tunnels and other persons of profound academic
knowledge and experience in the structural safety of the utility tunnels or the prevention of
disasters.
(4) Costs required for managing the utility tunnels shall be borne by persons who occupy
and use such utility tunnels and the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City
Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall determine the bearing ratio of such costs
taking into account the occupation area. In this case, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor,
the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall allow persons who
occupy and use the utility tunnels to pay costs required for managing the utility tunnels
twice a year in installments.
(5) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun who is in charge of managing the utility tunnels shall conduct the safety
check of the utility tunnels not less than once a year and if any abnormality is found,
promptly take necessary measures such as close safety check, repairs and upgrades, etc.
(6) Necessary matters concerning costs required for managing the utility tunnels, the
method of managing the utility tunnels and the composition and operation of the Utility
Tunnels Management Council, etc. other than the matters falling under paragraphs (1)
through (5) shall be prescribed by the urban planning ordinance.
 
Article 37 (Support for Installation of Wide-Area Facilities)
Any  local  government  shall,  when  it  intends  to  install  wide-area  facilities  in  the
jurisdictional area of other local government, implement the project falling under any of
the following subparagraphs or support such facilities:
1. Project aimed at preventing environmental pollution; project of installing waste-
treatment  and  sewage  facilities  or  crating  green  area  and  project  of  preventing
environmental  pollution,  bad  smells,  noises  and  vibrations,  etc.;  and
2. Project aimed at increasing conveniences for local residents; project of installing road,
park, water and cultural facilities, libraries, social welfare facilities, building pavilions for
senior citizens, and installing sewage and general medical facilities, etc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            28                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 38 (Application for Purchasing Urban Planning Facility Sites) (1) Any land owner shall,
when he intends to apply for purchasing land under Article 40 (1) of the Act, file an
application for purchasing the land, accompanied by the attested copies of registers with
respect to the land and building subject to his purchase, with the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun (referring to the
park management agency as prescribed in Article 5 (1) of the Urban Park Act in the case of
a park and the green area management agency as prescribed in Article 11 (1) of the Urban
Park Act in the case of a green area).
(2) The provisions of Article 18-4 of the Enforcement Decree of the Land Expropriation Act
and Article 18-5 of the same Decree shall apply mutatis mutandis to the scope of the land
possessed by any absentee real estate owner and the scope of non-business land under
Article 40 (2) 2 of the Act. In this case, the “business recognition publication date” shall be
deemed the “purchase application date”.
(3) The term a “certain amount prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 40 (2) 2 of
the Act means 30 million won.
(4) The term “building and installation prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in the former
part, with the exception of each subparagraph, of Article 40 (7) of the Act means what falls
under any of the following subparagraphs: Provided, That the same shall not apply to the
case where the urban planning ordinance prescribes otherwise the permission scope within
the scope prescribed by each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Any single-family house with not more than 3 stories as shown in subparagraph 1 (a) of
the attached Table l of the Enforcement Decree of the Building Act;
2.  Any  class-Ⅰ neighboring  life  facility  with  not  more  than  3  stories  as  shown  in
subparagraph 3 of the attached Table l of the Enforcement Decree of the Building Act;
and
3. Any installation.
 
Article 39 (Publication of Invalidation of Urban Planning Implementation Decision)
The invalidation of any urban planning implementation decision under Article 41 (2) of the
Act shall be published in a manner that the date of invalidation, the cause of invalidation
and the contents of the urban planning are run in the Official Gazette.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            29                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 40 (Area Subject to Designation of District Planning Area)
The term “area prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 42 (1) 10 of the Act means
the area falling under each of the following subparagaphs:
1. Model city;
2. Area for which permission for the act of development is restricted and such restrictions
are published under Article 49 (2) and (3) of the Act;
3. Area in which residents intend to develop efficiently the space of underground and air;
4. Area which is published and offered for the public perusal for the purpose of drafting an
urban planning with respect to alteration designation of the area;
5. Site and its surrounding area, which accrues from the relocation or closure of large-scale
facilities such as factory, school and military unit;
6. Area in which apartments are built under a reconstruction project; and
7. Area which is prescribed by the urban planning ordinance and necessary to facilitate the
function and beautiful view of a city, and secure better environment.
 
Article 41 (Application of Relaxation to Building Coverage Ratio, etc. in District Planning Area)
(1) Where any person who intends to construct a building in the district
planning area provides part of its site as a site for public facilities, the relaxation of the
building coverage ratio for such building under Article 42 (3) of the Act may be applied up
to the following ratio in a district planning:
The building coverage ratio that can be relaxed; within the building coverage ration
applied in the area concerned × (1 ＋ area provided as a site for public facilities ÷ original
site area).
(2) The relaxation of the building coverage ratio may be applied to the district planning
area in a district planning according to the classification falling under each of the following
subparagraphs under Article 42 (3) of the Act:
1. Where any person who intends to construct a building in the district planning area
provides part of the site for such building as a site for public facilities: the building
coverage ratio applied in the area concerned × (1 ＋ area provided as a site for public
facilities ÷ original site area);
2. In the case of a development promotion area under Article 33 (1) 9 of the Act: within 1.2
times the building coverage ration applied in the area concerned; and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            30                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
3. In the case falling under any of the following items, if any joint development is made on
the recommendation of the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City
Mayor, the head of Si or the head of  Gun; within 1.2 times the building coverage ratio
applied in the area concerned:
(a) Where one building is to be constructed on not less than two lots of land in the district
planning;
(b) Where a joint-wall building is to be constructed in the district planning; and
(c) Where parking lots and pedestrian roads are to be used jointly in the district planning
and that buildings are required to be simultaneously constructed on not less than two lots
of land.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) shall, where such provisions fall under any of the
following subparagraphs, not be applied:
1. The case of an area which is required to be developed or managed on a planned basis
from among areas removed from the development restriction area, the urbanization
adjustment area, the green area or park, and areas newly incorporated into urban
planning areas; and
2. The case of the existing area, of the area which has a high building coverage ratio or of
the area altered into a district.
(4) The relaxation of the limits to the height of buildings in the district planning area may
be applied in a district planning according to the classification falling under each of the
following subparagraphs under Article 42 (3) of the Act:
1. Where any person who intends to construct a building in the district planning area
provides part of its site as a site for public facilities: within the height of the building,
which is limited under Article 51 of the Building Act × (1 ＋ area provided as a site for
public facilities ÷original site area); and
2. In the case of the development promotion area under Article 33 (1) 9 of the Act: within
the height of buildings, which is limited under Article 51 of the Act.
(5)  The  relaxation  of  use,  kind,  scale,  etc.  of  any  building  which  is  allowed  to  be
constructed in the district planning area under Article 42 (3) of the Act may be applied in a
district planning within the scope of what is prescribed in the attached Tables 2 through 7.
 
Article 42 (Contents of District Planning) (1) The term “area and district prescribed by the
Presidential Decree” in Article 43 (1) 1 of the Act means the area which can be designated

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            31                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
after being subdivided under Article 29 and the district which can be designated after
being subdivided under Article 30 (2) and (3).
(2) The term “urban infrastructures prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 43 (1) 2
of the Act means the facilities falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. In the case of an area under Article 42 (1) 2 through 8, an urban infrastructure
constructed in a development project in accordance with individual Act which provides a
legal ground for designating such area;
2. Roads;
3. Parking lots;
4. Squares or plazas;
5. Parks (excluding cemetery parks and urban nature parks);
6. Green area;
7. Public vacant land;
8. Water;
9. Utility tunnels;
10. Schools (excluding universities);
11. Public buildings;
12. Cultural facilities;
13. Libraries;
14. Research facilities;
15. Social welfare facilities;
16. Public vocational training facilities;
17. Juvenile training facilities;
18. Sewage facilities; and
19. General medical facilities.
(3) The term “urban planning facilities prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 43
(2) of the Act means roads, parking lots, parks, green areas, public vacant land, tap-water
facilities, electricity-supply facilities and equipment, gas-supply facilities and equipment,
heatsupply facilities and equipment, schools (limited to elementary and secondary schools),
sewage facilities and waste-treatment facilities.
(4) If it is deemed necessary to ensure a smooth traffic in the district planning area, a
parking lot attached to a building may be permitted to be installed independently or

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            32                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
jointly outside the site of such building in a district planning. In this case, the location and
scale, etc. of the parking lot attached to the building, which installed outside the site of the
building concerned, shall be determined by a district planning.
(5) The gateway of the parking lot attached to the building, which is installed outside the
site of the building concerned under paragraph (4), shall not be located on the edge of the
main road: Provided, That the same shall not apply to the case where the Special
Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun
deems such gate as not obstructing the smooth traffic taking into account plans for traffic
in the district planning area, etc.
 
Article 43 (Opinions of Residents with Respect to Draft District Planning)
A person falling under any of the following subparagraphs may furnish matters he hopes
to  include  in  a  draft  district  planning  to  the  Special  Metropolitan  City  Mayor,  the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of  Gun, and the Special Metropolitan
City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he
recognizes the matters furnished appropriate, reflect such matters in such draft district
planning:
1. In the event that a district planning area is designated on the proposal made by
residents under Article 20 of the Act, the proponents; and
2. In the event that a district planning area is designated to an area as prescribed in Article
42 (1) 2 through 7, the implementers of development projects under individual Act which
provide a legal ground for designating such area.
 
Article 44 (Publication of Invalidation of Designation of District Planning Area)
The invalidation of the designation of any district planning area under
Article 44 (2) of the Act shall be published in a manner that the date of invalidation, the
cause of invalidation and the contents of the invalidated district planning area are run in
the Official Gazette.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅴ  PERMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT ACT
 
Article 45 (Object of Permission for Development Act)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            33                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
The act which is required to get permission for development act under Article 46 (1) of the
Act shall be the act falling under each of the following subparagraphs:<Amended by Act No.
17111, Jan. 27, 2001>
1. The construction of a building: the act of constructing a building under Article 2 (1) 2 of
the Building Act;
2. The setup of installations: the act of installing artificially manufactured facilities
(excluding any building under Article 2 (1) 2 of the Building Act;
3. The alteration of form and quality of land: the act of altering the form of land and
reclaiming public waters by means of ground cutting, banking, ground-leveling and
paving etc.;
4. The collection of earth and stones: the act of collecting earth and stones such as earth,
sand, gravel and rock: Provided, That the act to alter the form and quality of land is
excluded;
5. Land division: the act of dividing the land falling under any of the following items: and
(a) The division of land which is made in the green area without getting permission or
authorization, etc. under related Acts and subordinate statutes;
(b) The division of land which results in dividing the land with no building into an area less
than the area for which the division is restricted under Article 49 (1) of the Building Act;
and
(c) The division of land into a land, the width of which is less than 5 meters, which
undermines the rational utilization of land: Provided, That the same shall not apply to the
case where permission or authorization, etc. with respect to the division of land is granted
under other Acts and subordinate statutes;
6. The act of piling goods: the act of piling goods on a land which is not inside the fence
of a building (limited to any site leveled according to legal procedures).
 
Article 46 (Minor Alteration of Development Act Permission) (1) The term “where minor
matters prescribed by the Presidential Decree are altered” in the proviso of Article 46 (2) of
the Act means the case falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where the project period is shortened;
2. Where the project area is scaled back within the limit of 1/20; and
3. Where permissioned matters are inevitably altered on the grounds of an amendment to
related Acts and subordinate statutes or a change in the urban planning.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            34                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(2) Any person who has gotten permission for the development act shall, when he alters
minor matters falling under each subparagraph of paragraph (1), promptly file a notice
thereof with the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of
Si or the head of Gun.
 
Article 47 (Minor Acts Permitted to be Performed Without Permission)
The term “other minor acts prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 46 (3) 3 of the
Act means the act falling under each of the following subparagraphs: Provided, That the
same shall not apply to the case where such minor act is prescribed otherwise by the
urban planning ordinance within the limit of what is prescribed in each of the following
subparagraphs:
1. The setup of installations:
(a) The setup of installations measuring not more than 50 tons in weight, not more than 50
cubic meters in bulk and not more than 25 square meters in horizontal projection area;
and
(b) The installation of greenhouses for agricultural, forest and fishery purposes (excluding
any fresh-water fish farm established in the greenhouse) in the green area;
2. The alteration of form and quality of land:
(a) The alteration of form and quality of land within 50 centimeters in height or 50
centimeters in depth (excluding package and limited to the case where the re-classification
of land is not accompanied in case of the green area);
(b) The excavation of land to build a building or set up installations on a previously leveled
site; and
(c) The alteration of form and quality of land for a project implemented directly by the
State or a local government out of the need for the public interest;
3. Collection of earth and stones: the collection of earth and stones of not more than 50
cubic meters in bulk from a collection land area of not more than 25 square meters;
4. Land division: and
(a) Where a person divides a land after getting permission for building his private road
under the Private Road Act;
(b) Where part of the land is intented to be used as a public site or for public use;
(c) Where part of the land which is out of use from among administrative assets is
intended to be divided; and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            35                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(d) Where part of the land is published in a topographical drawing as an urban planning
facility;
5. The act of piling articles; the act of piling articles measuring not more than 50 tons in
weight and not more than 50 cubic square meters in bulk on a land measuring not more
than 25 square meters in area.
 
Article 48 (Procedures for Permitting Development Act, etc.) (1) The Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he
intends to attach conditions in accordance with Article 47 (2) of the Act, listen in advance
to the opinion of an applicant for permitting his development act.
(2) The term “case prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 47 (2) of the Act means
the case falling under each of the following subparagraphs (excluding the case of the
State,  any  local  government,  any  government-invested  institution  and  any  public
organization  prescribed  by  the  urban  planning  ordinance):
1. Where public facilities need to be installed due to any development act;
2.  Where  a  nearby  land  is  feared  to  be  collapsed,  or  a  nearby  building  or  nearby
installations  are  feared  to  be  damaged  by  a  land  excavation;
3. Where falling rocks and dusts, etc. caused by the blasting of earth and stones are feared
to damage a nearby area;
4. Where the environment surrounding a road is feared to be contaminated by trucks
using such road for transporting earth and stones; and
5. Where a slope is required to be planted after the alteration of form and quality of land
or the collection of earth and stones is completed.
(3) The amount of the performance bond under Article 47 (4) of the Act shall be the
amount determined by the urban planning ordinance within the limit of costs necessary for
the  installation  of  public  facilities,  the  prevention  of  dangers,  the  prevention  of
environmental  pollution  and  planting.
(4) The performance bond under Article 47 (4) of the Act shall be paid in cash and deemed
written guarantees, etc. as prescribed in each subparagraph of Article 37 (2) of the Act on
Contracts to Which the State is a Party.
(5) The performance bond under Article 47 (4) of the Act shall be refunded immediately
after the inspection of completion under Article 51 (1) of the Act is completed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            36                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(6) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun may, when any person who has gotten permission for his development act
fails to execute an order given to restore the original state under Article 47 (6) of the Act,
restore the original state by vicariously executing the order using the performance bond
under paragraph (4) of the same Article. In this case, if there is any balance, such balance
shall be refunded immediately to the depositor of such performance bond.
 
Article 49 (Publication of Limitations on Permitting Development Act)
The publication of limitations with respect to permitting the development act under Article
49 (3) of the Act shall be run in the Official Gazette.
 
Article 50 (Standards and Procedures for Permitting Development Act)
The standards and procedures for permitting the development act under
Article 49 (5) of the Act are as shown in the attached Table l.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅵ  LIMITATIONS ON ACT IN AREA, DISTRICT AND ZONE
 
Article 51 (Limitations on Construction in Area) (1) The limitations on the construction of any
building in the area under Article 53 (1) of the Act shall be what falls under each of the
following subparagraphs:
1. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the class-Ⅰ exclusive residential
area: the building as prescribed in the attached Table 2;
2. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the class-Ⅱ exclusive residential
area: The building as prescribed in the attached Table 3;
3. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the class-Ⅰgeneral residential area:
the building as prescribed in the attached Table 4;
4. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the class-Ⅱ general residential
area: the building as prescribed in the attached Table 5;
5. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the class-Ⅲ general residential
area: the building as prescribed in the attached Table 6;
6. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the quasi residential area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 7;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            37                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
7. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the central commercial area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 8;
8. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the general commercial area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 9;
9. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the neighboring commercial area:
the building as prescribed in the attached Table 10;
10. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the distribution business area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 11;
11. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the exclusive industrial area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 12;
12. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the general industrial area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 13;
13. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the quasi industrial area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 14;
14. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the conserved green area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 15;
15. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the production green area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 16; and
16. The building which is permitted to be constructed in the nature green area: the
building as prescribed in the attached Table 17;
(2) In applying the limitations on the construction of any building under paragraph (1), the
limitations on the construction of any attached building shall be governed by the
limitations on the construction of any main building.
 
Article 52 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Beautiful-View Area) (1) Any building
prescribed by the urban planing ordinance as impeding the protection and creation of
beautiful views in the beautiful-view area shall be prohibited from being constructed:
Provided, That the same shall not apply to the case where the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun recognizes any
building as being in conformity with the standards prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance within the limit of not violating the objective of designating such area and the
matter goes through deliberation of the Urban Planning Committee established by a local
government.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            38                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(2) The coverage ratio, the floor space ratio, height and beautiful view in the site of any
building in the beautiful-view area shall be determined by the urban planning ordinance
within the scope of protecting and creating beautiful views of the area.
 
Article 53 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Beautiful-View Area) (1) Any building
prescribed by the urban planning ordinance as impeding the maintenance of beautiful
views created according to the location, environment and other characteristics of the area
shall be prohibited from being constructed: Provided, That the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun recognizes any
building as being in conformity with the standards prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance within the limit of not violating the objective of designating such area and the
matter goes through deliberation of the Urban Planning Committee established by a local
government.
(2) The height, scale (including the ratio of the front length to the side length or the ratio
of height), the scale of an attached building, the fence, type, color, gate of the building,
and limitations and prohibition on the construction of such building shall be determined
by the urban planning ordinance within the scope of maintaining beautiful views created
according to the location of the area, environment and characteristics.
 
Article 54 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Height Area)
Any building exceeding or falling short of the height prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance shall be prohibited from being constructed in the height area.
 
Article 55 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Disaster Pre vention Area)
Any building prescribed by the urban planning ordinance as impeding the prevention of
flood and storm damages, landslide, ground collapse, earthquake and other disasters shall
be prohibited from being constructed in the disaster prevention area: Provided, That the
Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head
of Gun recognizes any building as being in conformity with the standards prescribed by
the urban planning ordinance within the limit of not violating the objective of designating
such area and the matter goes through deliberation of the Urban Planning Committee
established by a local government.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            39                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 56 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Preservation Area)
Only the building constructed according to the classification falling under each of the
following subparagraphs shall be permitted to be constructed in the conservation area:
Provided, That the same shall not apply to the case where the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun recognizes any
building as being in conformity with the standards prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance within the limit of not violating the objective of designating such area and the
matter goes through deliberation of the Urban Planning Committee established by a local
government.
1. Cultural resources preservation area: Any building constructed to directly protect and
manage cultural properties subject to the application of the Protection of Cultural
Properties Act and any building prescribed by the urban planning ordinance as not
impeding the protection and preservation of an area which is of highly cultural values;
2. Principal facility preservation area: Any building prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance as not impeding the protection and preservation of important national defense
facilities; and
3. Ecosystem preservation area: Any building prescribed by the urban planning ordinance
as not impeding the protection and preservation of an area which needs to be preserved
because of its high ecological values.
 
Article 57 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Facility Protection Area) (1) Any building
prescribed by the urban planning ordinance as impeding the performance of functions of
school and public-use facilities or harbors shall be prohibited from being constructed in
the school facility protection area, the public-use protection facility area and the harbor
facility protection area: Provided, That the same shall not apply to the case where the
Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head
of Gun recognizes any building as being in conformity with the standards prescribed by
the urban planning ordinance within the limit of not violating the objective of designating
such area, consults with the heads of administrative agencies concerned about his
recognition and the matter goes through deliberation of the Urban Planning Committee
established by a local government.
(2) Limitations on the construction of any building in the airport facility protection area
shall be governed by the Aviation Act and other limitations such as the use and type of a

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            40                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
building, etc. shall be determined by the urban planning ordinance within the scope of
protecting airport facilities and not impeding the landing and takeoff of aircraft.
 
Article 58 (Limitations on Construction of Building in Village Area) (1) Any building prescribed
by the urban planning ordinance as impeding the upgrades of villages shall be prohibited
from being constructed in the natural village area.
(2) Limitations on the construction of any building in the collective village area shall be
governed  by  the  Act  on  Special  Measures  for  Designation  and  Management  of
Development  Restriction  Area.
 
Article 59 (Limitations on Construction of Building In Apartment Area)
Any  building  shall  be  prohibited  from  being  constructed  in  the  apartment  area  in
contravention of the basic plan for the development of apartments as prescribed in Article
20 of the Housing Construction Promotion Act: Provided, That any building may be
constructed  in  the  apartment  area  within  the  scope  of  not  violating  the  planned
development of apartments prior to the formulation of the basic plan for the development
of apartments.
 
Article 60 (Other Limitations on Construction of Building in Area)
The use, kind and scale, etc. of a building in other area than areas prescribed in Articles 52
through 59 shall be determined by the urban planning ordinance within the scope
necessary to attain the objective of designating such area.
 
Article 61 (Exceptions to Limitations on Construction of Building in Area and District) (1) The
provisions of Articles 51 through 60 shall not apply to the urban planning facilities in the
area and district.
(2) Limitations on the construction of any building in the urbanization adjustment area
shall be governed by Articles 64 and 65 while limitations on the construction of any
building in the development restriction area shall be governed by the Act on Special
Measures for Designation and Management of Development Restriction Area.
 
Article 62 (Building Coverage Ratio in Area) (1) The building coverage ratio under Article 54
(1) and (2) of the Act shall not exceed the ratio prescribed by the urban planning
ordinance within the scope falling under each of the following subparagraphs:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            41                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
1. Class-Ⅰ exclusive residential area: not more than 50 percent;
2. Class-Ⅱ exclusive residential area: not more than 50 percent;
3. Class-Ⅰ general residential area: not more than 60 percent;
4. Class-Ⅱ general residential area: not more than 60 percent;
5. Class-Ⅲ general residential area: not more than 50 percent;
6. Quasi residental area: not more than 70 percent;
7. Central commercial area: not more than 90 percent;
8. General commercial area: not more than 80 percent;
9. Neighboring commercial area: not more than 70 percent;
10. Distribution business are: not more than 80 percent;
11. Exclusive industrial area: not more than 70 percent (in the case of an industrial complex
under subparagraph 5 of Article 2 of the Industrial Sites and Development Act, not more
than 80 percent);
12. General industrial area: not more than 70 percent (in the case of an industrial complex
under subparagraph 5 of Article 2 of the Industrial Sites and Development Act, not more
than 80 percent);
13. Quasi industrial area: not more than 70 percent (in the case of an industrial complex
under subparagraph 5 of Article 2 of the Industrial Sites and Development Act, not more
than 80 percent);
14. Preservation green area: not more than 20 percent (in the case of natural villages, not
more than 40 percent);
15. Production green area: not less than 20 percent (in the case of the natural village area,
not more than 40 percent);
16. Natural green area: 20 percent (in the case of the natural village area, not more than
40 percent; and
17. Other area: not more than 20 percent (in the case of a factory built in an industrial
complex under subparagraph 5 of Article 2 of the Industrial Sites and Development Act,
not more than 80 percent.
(2) Where the building coverage ratio is fixed by area in accordance with the urban
planning ordinance under paragraph (1), such ratio may be fixed by area after being
subdivided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            42                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) Any building which is constructed in the fire-prevention district of the general
commercial area, the neighboring commercial area or the quasi residential area under
Article 54 (3) of the Act and falls under any of the following subparagraphs shall be
prohibited from exceeding the ratio prescribed by the urban planning ordinance within the
scope of not less than 80 percent to not more than 90 percent notwithstanding the
provisions of paragraph (1):
1. The major structure of the building shall be fire-resistant; and
2. The site of the building shall be a site which is located on the corner of a road and falls
under any of the following items:
(a) The site which is linked to two roads crossing each other and the aggregate width of
the two roads exceeds15 meters and the interior angle of the two roads is not less than
120 degrees and not less than a third of the girth of the site is linked to the roads; and
(b) The site which is linked to two roads which do not cross each other with their width
each exceeding 8 meters and their boundary’s distance measuring not more than 35
meters and not less than a third of the girth of the site is linked to the roads.
(4) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun may, where he deems it necessary to lower the building coverage ratio to
prevent urban overpopulation, determine a district after going through deliberation of the
Urban Planning Committee established by the Special Metropolitan City, the Metropolitan
City, Si or Gun under Article 54 (3) of the Act and fix the building coverage ratio applicable
to such district within the maximum limit of not less than 40 percent in accordance with
the urban planning ordinance.
 
Article 63 (Floor Space Ratio in Area) (1) The floor space ratio under Article 55 (1) and (2) of
the Act shall not exceed the ratio determined by the urban planning ordinance within the
limit falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Class-Ⅰ exclusive residential area: not less than 50 percent to not more than 100
percent;
2. Class-Ⅱ exclusive residential area: not less than 100 percent to not more than 150
percent;
3. Class-Ⅰ general residential area: not less than 100 percent to not more than 200
percent;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            43                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
4. Class-Ⅱ general residential area: not less than 150 percent to not more than 250
percent;
5. Class-Ⅲ general residential area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 300
percent;
6. Quasi residential area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 700 percent;
7. Central commercial area: not less than 400 percent to not more than 1,500 percent;
8. General commercial area: not less than 300 percent to not more than 1,300 percent;
9. Neighboring commercial area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 900 percent;
10. Distribution business area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 1,100 percent;
11. Exclusive industrial area: not less than 150 percent to not more than 300 percent;
12. General industrial area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 350 percent;
13. Quasi industrial area: not less than 200 percent to not more than 400 percent;
14. Preservation green area: not less than 50 percent to not more than 80 percent;
15. Production green area: not less than 50 percent to not more than 100 percent;
16. Natural green area: not less than 50 percent to not less than 100 percent; and
17. Other areas: not less than 50 percent to not more than 100 percent.
(2) Where the floor space ratio is fixed by area in accordance with the urban planning
ordinance under paragraph (1), such floor space ratio may be fixed after being subdivided.
(3) Where the building falling under any of the following subparagraphs, which is located
in the quasi residental area, the central commercial area, the general commercial area, the
neighboring commercial area, the exclusive industrial area, the general industrial area or
the quasi industrial area under Article 55 (3) of the Act and deemed not to hinder any
traffic, fire-prevention and sanitation, its floor space ratio may be fixed at lower than the
ratio  computed  according  to  the  provisions  falling  under  each  of  the  following
subparagraphs  as  prescribed  by  the  urban  planning  ordinance:
1. Any building constructed on a site linked to a road in front of it, which is linked to a
park, square (excluding any traffic square; hereinafter the same in this Article shall apply),
river and other vacant land on which the construction of any building is prohibited or
any other building constructed on a site which is linked by not less than 20 meters to a
park, square, river and other vacant land on which the construction of any building is
prohibited: the ratio obtained by the multiplication of four thirds by the corresponding
floor space ratio under the provisions of each subparagraph of paragraph (1); and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            44                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
2. Any building with its area exceeding 1,000 square meters constructed on a site which is
linked by not less than 20 meters to a road with its width exceeding 25 meters: the ratio
obtained by the multiplication of five fourth by the corresponding floor space ratio under
the provisions of each subparagraph of paragraph (1).
(4) Where the constructor of a building provides part of the site of such building for use as
a vacant land of a park, square, road or river in the area or district falling under each of
the following subparagraph, in which the building is located under Article 55 (3) of the Act,
the floor space ratio of the building may be adjusted into a ratio prescribed by the urban
planning ordinance within the limit of not more than two times the floor space ratio under
the provisions of each subparagraph of paragraph (1) according to the ratio of the site
area provided:
1. The apartment area;
2. The district planning area set by the district planning;
3. The redevelopment area under the Urban Redevelopment Act; and
4. The commercial area.
(5) The floor space ratio of any amusement park, playground and park from among urban
planning facilities may be determined separately by the Ordinance of the Ministry of
Construction and Transportation notwithstanding paragraph (1).
 
Article 64 (Urban Planning Project Which Can Be Implemented in Urbanization Adjustment
Area)
The term “project prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 57 (1) of the Act means
an urban planning project which has to be inevitably implemented in the urbanization
adjustment area for the purpose of national defense and public interest and is recognized
by the Minister of Construction and Transportation at the request of the heads of central
administrative agencies concerned as having no impediments to attaining the objective of
designating such urbanization adjustment area.
 
Article 65 (Limitations on Act in Urbanization Adjustment Area) (1) The term “kind and size of
structure prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 57 (2) 1 of the Act means a
structure falling under each of the following subparagraphs, which is constructed by a
person who runs the business of agriculture, forest or fishery:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            45                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
1. Cattle sheds;
2. Compost barn;
3. Silkworm-raising room;
4. Warehouse (including storage and custody facilities);
5. Production facilities (including simple processing facilities);
6. Structure used for management (limited to the case where the area, including the area
of the previous structure used for management, is not more than 33 square meters); and
7. Fish farm.
(2) The term “other acts prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 57 (2) 1 of the Act
means the act falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. The act of constructing a house and a structure attached thereto, which falls under any
of the following items:
(a) The expansion of a house (referring to the expansion of area equivalent to not more
than 100 square meters, including the area of an existing house); and
(b) The construction of an attached structure (limited to what is attached to a house or a
structure  equivalent  to  house  and  referring  to  the  new  construction,  expansion,
reconstruction or major renovation of an area equivalent to not more than 33 square
meters, including the area of an existing structure);
2. The act of installing village joint facilities, which falls under any of the following items:
(a) The construction of farm roads, banks and the installation of erosion-control facilities;
(b) The construction of Saemaul halls;
(c) The expansion, and relocation and construction (including the case where any rice mill
is relocated to the urbanization adjustment area because of a public works project
undertaken in a area adjacent to the urbanization adjustment area) of any existing rice mill
(including any rice mill owned by any private person);
(d) The setup of resting places such as pavilions;
(e) The construction of farming machine repair shops and oil-sale stations (including any
farm machine repair shop and any oil-sale station owned by any private person); and
(f) The construction of wharfs and lighter’s wharfs;
3. The act of installing facilities for public interest, facilities for public use and public
facilities, etc., which falls under any of the following items:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            46                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(a) The installation of facilities for a public-interest project which falls under subparagraph
1 of Article 3 of the Land Expropriation Act;
(b) The restoration of cultural properties and the construction of structures used for
managing cultural properties;
(c) The setup of public health centers, police boxes, firehouse branches, post offices and
Eup/Myeon/Dong offices;
(d) The setup of public libraries, telephone/telegraph offices, vocational training centers,
research  institutes,  pumping  stations,  guard  posts,  shelters,  public  toilets  and  the
installation  of  facilities  used  for  training  reserves;
(e) The construction of joint purchase-sale stations, loading and unloading stations and
warehouses used by agricultural cooperatives under the Agricultural Cooperatives Act and
forest and fisheries cooperatives (including cooperative branches at the fishing village
level);
(f) The installation of social welfare facilities;
(g) The installation of facilities for preventing environmental contamination;
(h) The installation of correctional facilities; and
(i) The setup of outdoor music halls and outdoor theaters;
4. The act of constructing structures and setting up installations for the mining and
manufacturing industries, which falls under any of the following items:
(a) The construction of any factory which is already run by any foreign investor at the time
that the urbanization adjustment area is designated, any factory that produces and
processes exportoriented goods, any factory set up with the approval of a small and
medium business cooperative promotion plan under Article 19 of the Promotion of Small
and Medium Enterprises and Encouragement of Purchase of Their Products Act and the
expansion of any factory (the expansion area shall be not more than an area equivalent to
100 percent of the total floor area of the existing factory and the alteration of the form
and quality of land shall not exceed two times the floor area of the factory to be
expanded) and the installation of facilities thereto;
(b) The installation of facilities attached to any factory which is set up in accordance with
related Acts and subordinate statutes at the time that the urbanization adjustment area is
designated (the leveling of any new site shall not be permitted and such facilities shall be
installed on the site of the existing factory);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            47                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(c) The construction of provisional structures or the setup of installations necessary for
mining minerals subject to the mining concession which is already established under the
Minning Industry Act at the time that the urbanization adjustment area is designated; and
(d) The construction of provisional structures and the setup of installations necessary for
collecting earth and stones;
5. The reconstruction and major renovations of a building for the same purpose of the
existing building and within the same size of the existing building;
6. The construction of provisional structures used for the work of constructing a building
or setting up installations which are permitted in the urbanization adjustment area and
the construction of provisional structures which produces blocks, cement, bricks, broken
stones, ready mixed concrete and asphalt concrete, etc. which are required for such work;
7. The act of changing the purpose of use, which falls under any of the following items:
and
(a) The act of changing the purpose of use of a building constructed lawfully in accordance
with related Acts and subordinate statutes into an establishment which is permitted to be
newly constructed in the urbanization adjustment area;
(b) The cross change of the types of business between two factories (limited to the case
where the extent of the emission of pollutants, etc. and air pollution does not exceed the
levels prior to such change); and
(c) The act of changing the purpose of use of establishments, such as factories and houses,
etc. which are prohibited to be newly constructed in the urbanization adjustment area into
neighboring life establishments (supermarkets, daily necessities retail stores, gas-utensil
stores, general restaurants, confectioneries, beauty parlors, laundries, public baths, photo
studios, woodworking shops, clinics, pharmacies, bonesetters’ offices, massage parlors,
acupuncture service offices, maternity clinics, veterinary hospitals, paduk houses, and such
sports establishments as billiard rooms, funeral parlors and ping-pong halls and simple
repair shops) or religious establishments;
8. The expansion of religious establishment (the leveling of any new site shall not be
permitted and the expansion area shall not exceed 200 percent of the total floor space
of such religious establishment at the time that the urbanization adjustment area is
designated).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            48                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) The term “other minor act prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in Article 57 (2) 2 of
the Act means the act falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. The alteration of the form and quality of land which falls under any of the following
items: and
(a) The alteration of the form and quality of land for the construction of building or the
setup of installations under paragraphs (1) and (2);
(b) The alteration of the form and quality of land for operating public projects under
subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the Land Expropriation Act;
(c) The alteration of the form and quality of land for reclaiming tidal flats for agriculture
and fishery and for creating grazing land for livestock; and
(d) The alteration of the form and quality of land for mining minerals subject to the mining
concession which is established under the Mining Industry Act at the time that the
urbanization adjustment area is designated;
2. The merger and division of land.
 
Article 66 (Standards for Permitting Act in Urbanization Adjustment Area) (1) In granting
permission under Article 57 (2) of the Act, where such permission impedes attaining the
objective of designation the urbanization adjustment area and the rational utilization of the
land concerned and other surrounding land, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall not grant such
permission.
(2) The standards for permitting the lumbering of trees, reforestation, afforestation and
silviculture in the urbanization adjustment area shall be governed by the Forestry Act.
(3) With respect to the act falling under any of the following subparagraphs, the Special
Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun
shall not deny permission under Article 57 (2) of the Act unless special reasons exist that
make it impossible to do so:
1. The minor acts as prescribed in Article 46 (1) and each subparagraph of Article 47;
2. The construction of building under each subparagraph of Article 65, which falls under
any of the following items: and
(a) The construction of cattle shed: the area of a cattle shed, including the area of an
existing cattle shed per household (referring to one household engaged in agriculture or
fishery; hereinafter the same shall apply in this Article) shall be not more than 300 square

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            49                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
meters (in case of a lepers’ village, not more than 500 square meters): Provided, That a
cattle shed of not more than 100 square meters in area which is located adjacent to the
management barn of orchard and grassland may be constructed separately;
(b) The construction of compost barn: the area of the barn, including the area of the
existing compost barn, per household shall be not more than 100 square meters;
(c) The construction of silkworm raising-room: the area of such silkworm-raising room per
the mulberry tree field of 2,000 square meters or per the mulberry trees of 1,800 shall be
not more than 50 square meters;
(d) The construction of warehouse: the area of the warehouse necessary for storing
products  produced  in  the  land  or  other  land  attached  thereto  in  the  urbanization
adjustment area, including the area of the existing warehouse, shall be not more than 5/
1,000 of the area of such lands: Provided, That in the case of storing oranges, such area
shall be not more than 10/1,000; and
(e) The construction of management structure: the area of the management structure
established in orchid, grassland, fruit-tree area or horticultural area shall be not more than
5/1,00 of the area of the land used directly for their production, and the area of the
management structure, including the area of the existing management structure, shall be
not more than 33 square meters;
3. Minor act falling under each subparagraph of Article 9 (1) of the Building Act.
(4) In granting permission under Article 57 (2) of the Act, the Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun may, when he
deems it necessary to attain the objective of designating the urbanization adjustment area,
attach a condition to such permission that necessary measures, such as gardening, be
implemented.
(5) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun shall, when the contents of permission granted under Article 57 (2) of the Act
are feared to hinder an urban planning project undertaken in the urbanization adjustment
area, listen to opinion of the implementer of such urban planning project.
(6) The provisions of Article 50 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the permission granted
under Article 57 (2) of the Act.
 
Article 67 (Application for Permission, etc.) (1) Any person who intends to get permission in
the urbanization adjustment area under Article 57 (2) of the Act shall file an application for

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            50                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
such permission, in which matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs are
entered, with the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head
of Si or the head of Kun:
1. The name and domicile of the applicant (in case of a corporation, its name and location,
and the name and domicile of its representative);
2. The location and area of a land subject to act permission;
3. The kinds and contents of the act; and
4. The date on which the act is planned to start and the construction work is planned to
be completed.
(2) The application for permission referred to in paragraph (1) shall be accompanied by the
documents falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. Project plan; and
2. Construction work plan (excluding the case of any minor act as prescribed in Article 66
(3)).
 
            CHAPTER Ⅶ  IMPLEMENTATION OF URBAN PLANNING FACILITY PROJECT
 
Article 68 (Formulation of Phased-Implementation Plan) (1) The Special Metropolitan City
Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he
intends to draw up a phased-implementation plan under Article 58 (1) of the Act, consult
in advance with the heads of administrative agencies concerned.
(2) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun may examine the second-stage implementation plan every year and select
urban planning facilities to be installed in an urban planning project planned to be
implemented within 3 years to include such urban planning facilities in the first-stage
implementation plan.
(3) The publication of the phased implementation plan under Article 58 (4) of the Act shall
be made in the bulletin issued by the local government concerned.
(4) The term “minor matter prescribed by the Presidential Decree” in the proviso of Article
58 (5) of the Act means a change in the phased implementation plan following a minor
change in the urban planning under each subparagraph of Article 24 (3) and (4).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            51                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 69 (Designation of Implementer) (1) Any person who intends to get him designated as
an implementer of an urban planning project under Article 59 (5) of the Act shall file an
application in which matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs are entered
with the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or
the head of Kun:
1. Type and name of project;
2. Name and domicile of project implementer (in case of a corporation, its name and
location, and the name and address of its representative);
3. The owner of land or building, and the name and domicile of the related person under
Article 4 (3) of the Land Expropriation Act;
4. Date on which the project is planned to start and be completed; and
5. Fund-raising plan.
(2) Where the urban planning facility project concerned is required to be licensed,
authorized and permitted in accordance with other Acts and subordinate statutes, the
copies of license certificate, authorization certificate and permission certificate, etc. with
respect to the project implementation, shall be accompanied by the application referred to
in paragraph (1): Provided, That where the designation of a project implementer is
conditioned as the license, authorization and permission under other Acts and subordinate
statutes, a written statement issued by the head of an administrative agency concerned
may be deemed the said copies.
(3) Where a person, who is designated as the implementer of the urban planning facility
project concerned, fails to apply for authorization of the implementation plan for the urban
planning facility project without any justifiable reason by the date fixed at the time when
he  is  designated  as  such  implementer,  the  special  Metropolitan  City  Mayor,  the
Metropolitan City Mayor, or the head Si or Gu concerned may revoke the designation of
the implementer.
 
Article 70 (Authorization of Implementation Plan) (1) The implementation plan under Article
61 (1) of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the “implementation plan”) shall include the
matter falling under each of the following subparagraphs:
1. The type and name of project;
2. The area and size of project;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            52                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
3. The name and domicile of project implementer (in case of a corporation, the name and
location of such corporation and the name and domicile of its representative); and
4. Date on which the project is planned to start and be completed.
(2) Where a person, who is designated as the implementer, intends to draw up the
implementation plan under Article 59 (5) of the Act, he shall in advance listen to the
opinions of the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of
Si or the head of Gun.
(3) Where the urban planning facility project is dividedly implemented under Article 60 of
the Act, the project may be draw up by divided areas.
(4)  Any  implementer  of  the  urban  planning  facility  shall,  when  he  intends  to  get
authorization for his implementation plan under Article 61 (2) of the Act, file an application
for such authorization, accompanied by the documents falling under each of the following
subparagraphs, with the Mayor/Do governor:
1. A location map of a place where the project is implemented and a planning flatness;
2. Work drawing and specification (in case of a project for which construction consultations
are required to be made under Article 25 of the Building Act, outline drawing and
specification);
3. The record, lot number, classification and the detailed statement of rights other than
ownership of a land or a building to be used or expropriated;
4. The records and drawings of public facilities to be newly installed in an urban planning
facility  project  and  the  existing  public  facilities  (limited  to  the  case  where  an
administrative  agency  is  a  project  implementer);
5. An written appraisal issued by not less than two appraisers with respect to the property
of  the  State  or  a  local  government,  which  is  to  be  made  out  of  use  by  the
implementation of an urban planning facility project (limited to the case where a person
who is not an administrative agency is a project implementer);
6. The records and drawings of public facilities to be installed in an urban planning facility
project and account statement with respect to costs required for installing such public
facilities (limited to the case where a person who is not an administrative agency is a
project implementer). In this case, where the land on which the public facilities are to be
installed and the land on which the existing public facilities are installed are identical,
only the costs subtracting the land price shall be calculated;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            53                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
7. Documents which are necessary for consultations with the heads of administrative
agencies concerned under Article 64 (2) of the Act; and
8. The results of listening to opinions of the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the
Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the head of Gun under paragraph (2).
 
Article 71 (Public Perusal of Documents, etc.) (1) The publication of the implementation plan
under Article 62 (1) of the Act shall include the matter falling under each of the following
subparagraphs:
1. Summary of application for authorization; and
2. Date, time and place of public perusal.
(2) The publication of any implementation plan under Article 62 (1) of the Act shall be run
in dailies which are circulated mainly in the City/ Do concerned.
(3) A change in the minor matter falling under any of the following subparagraphs may be
excluded from the publication and public perusal referred to in paragraph (1):
1. A change in the project’s substance within the scope of not changing the place on
which the project is to be implemented; and
2. A change in the date on which the project is planned to start and be completed.
(4) Expenses involved in the publication under paragraph (2) shall be borne by the
implementer of an urban planning facility project.
 
Article 72 (Publication of Implementation Plan) (1) The publication of the implementation
plan under Article 63 of the Act shall be made in a manner that the matter falling under
each of the following subparagraphs is run in the Official Gazette in the event that the
Minister of Construction and Transportation makes such publication and in the bulletin of
the City/Do concerned in the event that the Mayor/Do governor makes such publication:
1. The location of a place on which the project is to be implemented;
2. The kind and name of the project;
3. The area and scale of the project;
4. The name and domicile of project implementer (in case of a corporation, its name and
address and the name and domicile of its representative);
5. Date on which the project is planned to start and be completed;
6. The location, lot number and classification of a land or a building to be used or
expropriated and details of rights other than ownership;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            54                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
7. The owner of land and building and the domiciles and names of persons involved under
Article 4 (3) of the Land Expropriation Act; and
8. Matters concerning the reversion and transfer of public facilities, etc. under Article 71 of
the Act.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor shall, when
he  publishes  the  implementation  plan  under  paragraph  (1),  notify  the  heads  of
administrative  agencies  of  its  contents.
 
Article 73 (Service of Publication)
Any implementer of an urban planning facility project shall, when he intends to serve any
publication under Article 66 (1) of the Act, get approval thereof from the competent
Mayor/Do governor.
 
Article 74 (Publication of Construction Work Completion) (1) Where any urban planning
facility project undergoes the inspection of completion under other Acts and subordinate
statutes, the portion which undergoes such inspection of completion may be excluded
from the inspection of completion under Article 70 (2) of the Act. In this case, the
Mayor/Do governor may ask the head of any administrative agency which performs the
inspection of completion to notify him of details of such inspection of completion.
(2) The publication with respect to the completion of any construction work under Article
70 (3) and (4) of the Act shall be made in the Official Gazette in the event that such
publication is made by the Minister of Construction and Transportation and in the bulletin
of the City/Do concerned in the event that such publication is made by the Mayor/Do
governor.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅷ  COSTS
 
Article 75 (Disposal of Leveled Site, etc.)
The State or any local government shall, when it intends to dispose of any property in its
possession  from  among  sites  leveled  and  buildings  constructed  as  a  result  of  the
implementation of an urban planning facility project under Article 72 of the Act, publish
matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            55                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
1. The sites and buildings are disposed of according to the precedence under each
subparagraph of Article 72 of the Act; and
2. The location and area of such sites and buildings intended to be disposed of.
 
Article 76 (Bearing of Costs by Local Governments) (1) Total charges under Article 74 (1) of
the Act shall not exceed 1/2 of costs required for the urban planning facility project
concerned. In this case, such costs required for the urban planning facility project shall not
include expenses involved in the survey and measurement, design and management for
the urban planning facility project.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor shall, when
he intends to impose charges on the City/ Do, Si or Gun which benefits from any urban
planning facility project under Article 74 (1) of the Act, provide the City/ Do, Si or Gun on
which he intends to impose such charges with particulars of the gross amount of costs
required for the urban plan ning facility project concerned and the amount of such
charges.
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the case where
the head of Si or the head of Gun intends to get other local government to bear part of
costs required for an urban planning facility project under Article 74 (3) of the Act.
 
Article 77 (Bearing of Costs by Manager of Public Facilities) (1) The total amount of the
charges under Article 75 (1) of the Act shall not exceed 1/3 of the costs required for any
urban planning facility project: Provided, That where any urban planning facility project is
aimed at upgrading other public facilities, the total amount of the charges may be the
whole costs or up to 1/2 of the costs required for such urban planning facility project.
(2) In case of paragraph (1), the costs required for the urban planning facility project shall
not include costs involved in survey, measurement, design and management.
(3) The provisions of Article 76 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the bearing of
costs under paragraph (1).
 
Article 78 (Ratio of Subsidies and Loans) (1) Any subsidy from the treasury for the cost
required for the basic survey under Article 76 (1) of the Act shall not exceed 80 percent of
the cost required for such basic survey.
(2) With respect to any urban planning facility project undertaken by any administrative
agency under Article 76 (2) of the Act, not more than 50 percent of the construction costs

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            56                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(referring to the compensation that includes construction and appraisal costs, but excludes
costs involved in survey, design and management; hereafter the same in this paragraph
shall apply) may be subsidized or loaned from the treasury and with respect to any urban
planning facility project undertaken by any person who is not an administrative agency,
not more than 1/3 of the construction costs may be subsidized or loaned from the
treasury.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅸ  URBAN PLANNING COMMITTEE
 
Article 79 (Subcommittees of Central Urban Planning Committee) (1) Any subcommittee
(hereinafter in this Article referred to as the “subcommittee”) of the Central Urban Planning
Committee established pursuant to Article 81 of the Act may be established by area such
as traffic and environment, etc., by the type of planning such as the wide-area planning,
the urban basic planning and the urban planning, etc. and by case.
(2) The subcommittee shall consist of not less than 5 to not more than 9 members,
including one chairman.
(3)  Members  of  the  subcommittee  shall  be  elected  by  the  Central  Urban  Planning
Committee from among its members and the chairman of the subcommittee shall be
selected from among the members of the subcommittee.
 
Article 80 (Request for Furnishing Data) (1) The Central Urban Planning Committee may,
when it deems necessary, ask the heads of central administrative agencies to furnish
necessary data and seek explanations from the persons of profound academic knowledge
with respect to the urban planning.
(2) The Mayor/Do governor, the head of Si or the head of Gun may attend a meeting of
the Central Urban Planning Committee to speak about matters concerning the urban
planning of his local government.
 
Article 81 (Minutes)
The secretary of the Central Urban Planning Committee shall make a minute whenever a
meeting is held to report such minute to the next meeting and keep minutes made that
way.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            57                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Article 82 (Composition and Operation of City/Do Urban Planning Committee) (1) The
City/Do Urban Planning Committee shall consist of not less than 20 to not more than 25
members, including one chairman and one vice chairman.
(2) The chairman of the City Urban Planning Committee shall be the vice mayor and the
chairman of the Do Urban Planning Committee shall be the vice governor from among
City/Do Urban Planning Committees, and the vice chairman of the City/Do Urban Planning
Committee shall be elected from among its members.
(3) The members of the City/Do Urban Planning Committee shall be appointed or
commissioned by the Mayor/Do governor from among the persons falling under any of
the following subparagraphs:
1. Members of the council of the City/Do concerned;
2. Local civil servants of the City/Do concerned; and
3. Persons of academic knowledge and experience in land utilization, traffic, environment,
the prevention of disasters and information communications, etc.
(4) The term of office for any member falling under paragraph (3) 3 shall be two years and
may be reelected: Provided, That the term of office for any supplementary member shall
be the remainder of the term of office for his predecessor.
(5) The chairman of the City/Do Urban Planning Committee shall exercise overall control of
the work, calling meetings and presiding over such meetings.
(6) The City/Do Urban Planning Committee shall decide on its agenda with the attendance
of a majority of its registered members and with a concurrent vote of a majority of those
present.
(7) The City/Do Urban Planning Committee may have one secretary and a few assistant
secretaries appointed by the chairman.
(8) The secretary of the City/Do Urban Planning Committee shall, on orders from the
chairman, deal with administrative affairs and the assistant secretaries shall assist the
secretary.
 
Article 83 (Composition and Operation of Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning Committee) (1) The Si
Urban Planning Committee, the Gun Urban Planning Committee and the Gu Urban
Planning Committee (hereinafter referred to as the “Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning
Committee”) under Article 85 (2) of the Act shall each consist of not less than 15 to not
more than 25 members including one chairman and one vice chairman: Provided, That

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            58                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
where not less than two Si/Gun (including Gun in the jurisdictional area of the
Metropolitan City; the same in this Article shall apply) or Gu jointly establish the Si/Gun/Gu
Urban Planning Committee, its number of members may become up to 32.
(2) The chairman of the Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning Committee shall be the head of Si/Gun
(including the head of Gun in the jurisdictional are of the Metropolitan City; the same in
this Article shall apply) and the head of Gu and the vice chairman of the Si/Gun/Gu shall
be the vice head of Si/Gun (including the vice head of Gun in the jurisdictional area of the
Metropolitan City; the same in this Article shall apply) and the vice head of Ku: Provided,
That where not less than two Si/Gun or Gu jointly establish the Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning
Committee, the chairman and vice chairman of such Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning Committee
shall each be the head and vice head of Si/ Gun/Gu having the largest population.
(3) The members of the Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning Committee shall be appointed or
commissioned by the head of Si/Gun/Gu from among the persons falling under each of
the  following  subparagraphs.  In  this  case,  the  number  of  members  falling  under
subparagraph  3  shall  exceed  2/3  of  the  total  members:
1. Members of the council of the Si/Gun/Gu concerned;
2. Civil servants of the Si/Gun/Gu concerned; and
3. Persons of profound learning and experience in fields related to the urban planning such
as land utilization, traffic, environment, the prevention of disasters and information and
communications, etc.
(4) The provisions of Article 82 (4) through (8) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
Si/Gun/Gu Urban Planning Committee.
 
Article 84 (Subcommittees of Local Urban Planning Committee) (1) The Local Urban Planning
Committee established pursuant to Article 85 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the
“Local Urban Planning Committee”) may establish subcommittees to deal with matters
delegated by it.
(2) With respect to matters designated especially by the Local Urban Planning Committee
from among the matters delegated by the Local Urban Planning Committee to the
subcommittees  under  paragraph  (1),  the  deliberation  of  such  matters  by  the
subcommittees shall be deemed the deliberation of them by the Local Urban Planning
Committee.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            59                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) The provisions of Article 79 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the subcommittees
established pursuant to paragraph (1).
 
Article 85 (Allowances, etc.)
The members and expert members of the Central Urban Planning Committee may be paid
allowances and travel expenses within limits of budget under the conditions as prescribed
by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Construction and Transportation in accordance with
Article 87 of the Act.
 
Article 86 (Operational Detailed Regulations)
Matters necessary for operating the Central Urban Planning Committee, other than matters
prescribed by this Decree, shall be determined by the Minister of Construction and
Transportation and matters necessary for operating the Local Urban Planning Committee
shall be determined by the ordinance of the local government concerned.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅹ  SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
 
Article 87 (Building, Operation and Utilization of Urban Planning Information System) (1) The
Minister of Construction and Transportation shall draw up a basic plan for building an
urban planning information system to build and utilize such system and facilitate the
standardization of such system.
(2) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, the Metropolitan City Mayor, the head of Si or the
head of Gun shall, when he intends to build an urban planning information system under
Article 91 of the Act, map out a plan for building an urban planning information system,
which includes matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs, in line with the
basic plan for building an urban planning information system referred to paragraph (1):
1. Matters relating to the development, maintenance and management of the urban
planning information system;
2.  Matters  relating  to  the  standardization  of  database  and  the  development  of  a
compatible  system  and  their  operation;  and
3. Matters relating to the utilization of the urban planning information system such as the
making of an urban planning and the rendering of services to the public, etc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            60                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(3) The urban planning information system shall be linked to and compatible with the
national  geography  information  system  built  under  the  Act  on  Building  National
Geography  Information  System  and  Utilization,  etc.
(4) The building, utilization and standardization, etc. of the urban planning information
system shall be linked to the basic plan for promoting the informationization and its
implementation  plan,  both  drawn  up  in  accordance  with  the  Framework  Act  on
Informationization  Promotion.
(5) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall, when he draws up the basic plan
for  building  the  urban  planning  information  system,  file  a  report  thereof  with  the
Informationization Promotion Committee established under Article 8 (1) of the Framework
Act on Informationization Promotion.
(6) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall determine standards and
procedures for drawing up the basic plan for building the urban planning information
system under paragraph (1) and the plan for building the urban planning information
system under paragraph (2), and matters necessary for building, operating and managing
the  urban  planning  information  system  after  going  through  deliberation  of  the
Informationization Working-Level Committee established under Article 8 (5) of the
Framework Act on Informationization Promotion.
 
Article 88 (Application to Facilities Outside Urban Planning Area) (1) The head of Si or the
head of Gun shall, when he intends to apply mutatis mutandis the Urban Planning Act to
urban infrastructure facilities installed in an area adjacent to the urban planning area under
Article 97 (1) of the Act, get authorization from the Mayor/Do governor after giving
expressly matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs. In this case, the head
of Si or the head of Gun shall furnish a topographical pan on a scale of 1/1000 or 1/5,000
which expressly shows the facilities:
1. The name, location and kind of facilities to which he intends to apply mutatis mutandis
the Urban Planning Act;
2. The provisions of the Urban Planning Act that he intends to apply mutatis mtandis; and
3. Reasons why he intends to apply mutatis mutandis the Urban Planning Act.
(2) The Minister of Construction and Transportation or the Mayor/Do governor shall, when
he intends to apply mutatis mutandis the Urban Planning Act to the urban infrastructure
facilities installed in an area adjacent to the urban planning area under Article 97 (1) of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            61                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
Act or to grant authorization for the mutatis mutandis application of the Urban Planning
Act under paragraph (1), publish the matters of each subparagraph of paragraph (1) in the
Official Gazette or in the bulletin of the City/Do concerned.
 
Article 89 (Delegation of Authority) (1) The Minister of Construction and Transportation shall
delegate his authority with respect to matters falling under each of the following
subparagraphs to the Mayor/Do governor in accordance with Article 98 (1) of the Act:
1. Consultations about drawing up a basic plan for urban planning of Gun (limited to Gun
located in areas other than Kyongki Province) under Article 6 (2) of the Act;
2. Approval of a basic plan for urban planning of Gun (limited to Gun located in areas
other than Kyongki Province) under Article 10 of the Act; and
3. Alteration decision falling under any of the following items from among alteration
decisions with respect to the urban planning area under Article 30 of the Act:
(a) Alteration decision with respect to the urban planning area which is not more than 5
square meters in area;
(b) Alteration decision with respect to the urban planning area in an urban area under the
Act on the Utilization and Management of the National Territory (excluding the case where
the urban planning area is divided or merged); and
(c) Minor alteration decision with respect to the urban planning area, which falls under
Article 24 (3) 4 and 5.
(2) The Mayor/Do governor shall, when he performs duties delegated under paragraph (1),
make a report thereof to the Minister of Construction and Transportation under the
conditions  as  prescribed  by  the  Ordinance  of  the  Ministry  of  Construction  and
Transportation.
 
            CHAPTER XI PENAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 90 (Imposition of Fine for Negligence) (1) The Mayor/Do governor, or the head of Si
or the head of Gun shall, when he intends to impose a fine for negligence in accordance
with Article 103 (3) of the Act, notify any person subject to a disposition taken to impose a
fine for negligence on him of the payment of such fine for negligence, expressly giving in
writing the fact of violation, the method of raising an objection and a period for which
such opposition is raised.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            62                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE URBAN PLANNING ACT」
(2) The Mayor/Do governor, or the head of Si or the head of Gun shall, when he intends to
impose a fine for negligence in accordance with paragraph (1), give any person subject to
a disposition taken to impose a fine for negligence on him an opportunity to state his
opinion within a fixed period not less than 10 days. In this case, where he fails to state his
opinion by the fixed date, it is deemed that he has no opinion.
(3) In determining the amount of any fine for negligence, the Mayor/Do governor, or the
head of Si or the head of Gun shall take into account motives of the violation act
concerned and its consequences.
(4) Procedures for collecting any fine for negligence shall be determined by the ordinance
of the local government concerned.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
