 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
STATE PROPERTY ACT
[Enforcement Date 09. Jun, 2020.] [Act No.17339, 09. Jun, 2020., Amendment by
Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과-국유재산법 총괄)044-215-5152
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
STATE PROPERTY ACT
[Enforcement Date 09. Jun, 2020.] [Act No.17339, 09. Jun, 2020., Amendment by Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과-국유재산법 총괄) 044-215-5152
기획재정부 (출자관리과-현물출자, 정부배당) 044-215-5177
 
            CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Act is to prescribe fundamental matters concerning
State property, thereby ensuring the appropriate protection and efficient administration
and disposal of State property.
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The definitions of terms used in this Act are as follows: <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
1. The term "State property" means property falling under any of the subparagraphs of
Article 5 (1), which comes to fall under the ownership of the State at a cost to the State,
by contributed acceptance, or by operation of statutes or treaties;
2. The term "contributed acceptance" means the gratuitous transfer of ownership of
property falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 5 (1) to the State by a person,
other than the State, and acceptance thereof by the State;
3. The term "administration" means any and all activities performed for the purpose of
acquiring, operating, keeping, or preserving State property;
4. The term "disposal" means the transfer of ownership of any State property to a person,
other than the State, by means of sale, exchange, transfer, entrustment, contribution in
kind, etc.;
5. The term "administrative conversion" means transferring the right to manage any State
property between general accounts and special accounts/funds or between different
special accounts/funds;
6. The term "government-invested corporation" means any corporation in which the
government has invested or is to invest, and which is prescribed by Presidential Decree;
7. The term "permission for use" means permitting any person other than the State to use
and benefit from any administrative property for a fixed period, whether for a fee or at
no charge;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
8. The term "loan contract" means any contract or agreement concluded for allowing any
person other than the State to use and benefit from any general property for a fixed
period, whether for a fee or at no charge;
9. The term "indemnity" means any amount of money imposed on a person who has used,
benefited from, or occupied any State property without obtaining permission for use or
signing a loan contract (including such persons who have continued to use, benefit from,
or occupy any State property without obtaining permission for use or signing a loan
contract even though the period for its original permission for use or loan contracts has
expired; hereinafter referred to as "person occupying any State property without
permission");
10. The term "office of general administration" means the Minister of Strategy and Finance;
11. The term "head of a central government agency, etc." means the head of a central
government agency under Article 6 of the National Finance Act (hereinafter referred to as
"head of a central government agency") and the person delegated or entrusted with the
affairs concerning administration or disposal of general property pursuant to Article 42
(1).
 
Article 3 (Basic Principles for Administration and Disposal of State Property) When the State
administers or disposes of any State property, it shall comply with the following principles:
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. It shall be in conformity with the common interests of the entire country;
2. Its acquisition and disposal shall be made to strike a balance;
3. It shall take public values and utility into consideration;
3-2. It shall take economic costs into consideration;
4. It shall follow transparent and efficient procedures.
 
Article 4 (Relationship to other Acts) Administration and disposal of any State property shall
be subject to conditions prescribed by this Act, unless any special provisions exist in other
Acts: Provided, That where the special provisions in other Acts and the Chapter II conflict
with each other, those in Chapter II shall prevail.
 
Article 5 (Scope of State Property) (1) The scope of State property is as follows: <Amended
on Dec. 18, 2012>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Real estate and the appurtenances thereof;
2. Vessels, buoys, floating bridges, floating docks, and aircraft and the appurtenances
thereof;
3.  Machinery  and  appliances  prescribed  by  Presidential  Decree  which  are  used  in
government enterprises defined in Article 2 of the Government Enterprise Budget Act
(hereinafter referred to as "government enterprises") or in government facilities;
4. Superficies, easements, leasehold rights, mining rights, and other rights equivalent
thereto;
5. Securities defined in Article 4 of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act (hereinafter referred to as "securities");
6. Any of the following rights (hereinafter referred to as "intellectual property"):
(a) Patent rights, utility model rights, design rights, and trademark rights registered under
the Patent Act, the Utility Model Act, the Design Protection Act and the Trademark Act;
(b) Copyrights, neighboring copyrights, and rights of database producers provided for in
the Copyright Act, and other rights protected by the same Act and registered with the
Korea Copyright Commission pursuant to Articles 53 and 112 (1) of the same Act
(hereinafter referred to as "copyright, etc.");
(c) Variety protection rights defined in subparagraph 4 of Article 2 of the Act on the
Protection of New Varieties of Plants;
(d) Intellectual property rights defined in subparagraph 3 of Article 3 of the Framework
Act on Intellectual Property, other than the intellectual property rights provided for in
items (a) through (c): Provided, That any right not registered under the Copyright Act
shall be excluded herefrom.
(2) Machinery and appliances referred to in paragraph (1) 3 that have been generally
disused due to the closure of the relevant enterprises or facilities, shall retain their status
as State property notwithstanding such closure.
 
Article 6 (Classifications and Types of State Property) (1) State property shall be classified into
administrative property and general property, according to its purpose of use.
(2) The types of administrative property are as follows: <Amended on Dec. 18, 2012>
1. Property for official use: Property the State directly uses or determines to use for
administrative or business purposes or for the residence of public officials (limited to
cases prescribed by Presidential Decree as necessary for the performance of their duties)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
during the period prescribed by Presidential Decree;
2. Property for public use: Property the State directly uses or determines to use for public
purposes during the period prescribed by Presidential Decree;
3. Property for government enterprises: Property any government enterprise directly uses
or determines to use for administrative or business purposes or for the residence of its
personnel (limited to cases prescribed by Presidential Decree as necessary for the
performance of their duties) during the period prescribed by Presidential Decree;
4. Property for preservation: Property the State preserves pursuant to statutes, or for other
necessities.
(3) The term "general property" means all State property other than administrative
property.
 
Article 7 (Protection of State Property) (1) No person shall use or benefit from State property
unless he/she complies with the procedures and methods prescribed by this Act or any
other Act.
(2)  No  administrative  property  shall  be  subject  to  acquisition  by  prescription,
notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Article  245  of  the  Civil  Act.
 
Article 8 (General Control and Administration of Affairs concerning State Property) (1) The
office of general administration shall have general control over the affairs concerning State
property and administer or dispose of the State property (excluding such State property
administered and disposed of by the head of a central government agency in accordance
with paragraph (3)). <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) The office of general administration may administer general property by converting it
into property for preservation.
(3) The head of a central government agency shall administer or dispose of the State
property which belongs either to the special accounts established as prescribed in Article 4
of the National Finance Act or to the funds established as prescribed in Article 5 of the
same  Act,  and  the  property  falling  under  any  of  subparagraphs  of  Article  40  (2).
<Amended  on  Mar.  30,  2011>
(4) Where the head of a central government agency intends to use the State property
except for the one in paragraph (3) as administrative property, he/she shall obtain approval
from the office of general administration as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly
Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(5) Part of the office of general administration's affairs of administering and disposing of
administrative property under this Act may be delegated to the head of each central
government agency as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 30,
2011>
 
Article 8 (General Control and Administration of Affairs concerning State Property) (1) The
office of general administration shall have general control over the affairs concerning State
property and administer or dispose of the State property (excluding such State property
administered and disposed of by the head of a central government agency in accordance
with paragraph (3)). <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) The office of general administration may administer general property by converting it
into property for preservation.
(3) The head of a central government agency shall administer or dispose of the State
property which belongs either to the special accounts established as prescribed in Article 4
of the National Finance Act or to the funds established as prescribed in Article 5 of the
same  Act,  and  the  property  falling  under  any  of  subparagraphs  of  Article  40  (2).
<Amended  on  Mar.  30,  2011>
(4) Where the head of a central government agency intends to use the State property
except for the one in paragraph (3) as administrative property, he/she shall obtain approval
from the office of general administration as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly
Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011>
(5) The office of general administration shall consider pre-contracts for preferential use
under Article 40-2 when granting approval of use under paragraph (4). <Newly Inserted on
Mar. 31, 2020>
(6) Part of the office of general administration's affairs of administering and disposing of
administrative property under this Act may be delegated to the head of each central
government agency as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 30,
2011; Mar. 31, 2020>
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 8
 
Article 8-2 (Withdrawal of Approval of Use, etc.) (1) With respect to the administrative
property that the office of general administration has approved the use thereof pursuant
to Article 8 (4), it may withdraw approval of use after deliberation of the Committee for
Examination on State Property Policies in accordance with Article 26 in cases of falling

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where it is necessary to achieve administrative objectives of the other State agency;
2. Where it is acknowledged that property has been administered in an illegal or improper
manner, according to a report under Article 21(1) or an audit under paragraph (3) of the
same Article;
3. Where it is acknowledged that the withdrawal of approval of use is inevitable on the
grounds of illegal or unfair administration of property, etc. as proven by an audit
conducted by the Board of Audit and Inspection, except for the cases falling under
subparagraph 1 or 2.
(2) In order for the office of general administration to withdraw approval of use in
accordance with paragraph (1), it shall inform the head of a central government agency
thereof in advance to give him/her an opportunity to present an opinion thereon.
(3) Where the approval of use has been withdrawn in accordance with paragraph (1), the
head  of  a  central  government  agency  shall  without  delay  transfer  the  relevant
administrative property to the office of general administration. In such cases, it shall be
deemed that the transferred property has fallen into disuse.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 9 (Comprehensive Plan for State Property) (1) The office of general administration
shall notify the head of a central government agency of the guidelines for preparing plans
to administer and dispose of State property for the following year by April 30 of each year.
(2) The head of a central government agency shall prepare a plan to manage and dispose
of State property for the following year in accordance with the guidelines under paragraph
(1), and shall submit it to the office of general administration by June 30 of every year.
(3) The office of general administration shall aggregate and coordinate the plans submitted
pursuant to paragraph (2) to prepare a comprehensive plan for State property, receive
approval therefor from the President after deliberation of the State Council, and submit the
plan to the National Assembly no later than 120 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year. <Amended on May 28, 2013>
(4) The comprehensive plan for State property shall include the following:
1. Mid- to long-term policy direction for the efficient administration/disposal of State
property;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. General plan regarding administration/disposal of State property as prescribed by
Presidential Decree;
3. Matters regarding the guidelines for disposal of State property;
4. Matters regarding the comprehensive plans for special cases involving State property
under Article 8 of the Act on Regulation of Special Cases of State Property;
5. Other important matters regarding administration/disposal of State property, except for
those specified in subparagraphs 1 through 4.
(5) The provision of paragraph (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the modification of a
comprehensive plan for State property.
(6) Where the office of general administration has confirmed or changed a comprehensive
plan for State property in accordance with paragraph (3) and (5), it shall inform the head of
a central government agency thereof; and in the case of a change made under paragraph
(5), it shall submit the plan to the National Assembly without delay.
(7) The head of a central government agency shall prepare a biannual enforcement plan of
the comprehensive plan for State property that has been confirmed under paragraph (3)
and submit it to the office of general administration by January 31 of the year concerned.
(8) Where the office of general administration establishes a comprehensive plan for State
property in accordance with paragraph (3), it shall respect the opinion of the head of the
independent government body prescribed under Article 6 (1) of the National Finance Act
(hereinafter referred to as "head of the independent government body") to the fullest
extent possible, and in cases where it is inevitable to adjust the comprehensive plan due to
the  operation  of  policy  for  State  property  or  other  reasons,  the  office  of  general
administration shall consult with the head of the relevant independent government body in
advance.
(9) Notwithstanding the consultation under paragraph (8), when the office of general
administration intends to adjust the plan of the independent government body under
paragraph (2), the office of general administration shall hear the opinion of the head of the
relevant independent government body in the State Council, and when the office of
general administration has adjusted the plan, it shall submit to the National Assembly the
scale  and  reason  of  the  adjustment,  the  opinion  of  the  head  of  the  independent
government body on the adjustment, together with the comprehensive plan for State
property.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 10 (Acquisition of State Property) (1) The State shall take into account, among other
things, the proceeds from the sale of State property and the necessity to reserve them,
and endeavor to secure financial resources for the acquisition of State property.
(2) Where the head of a central government agency intends to purchase land or buildings
for  the  use  of  public  property,  with  financial  resources  from  the  special  accounts
established under Article 4 of the National Finance Act or from the funds established under
Article 5 of the same Act, he/she shall consult with the office of general administration.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 11 (Restriction on Acquisition of Property for which Private Rights have been Created)
(1) No property for which private rights have been created shall be acquired by the State
as State property unless such rights are extinguished: Provided, That the same shall not
apply where the property is acquired by a court ruling.
(2) No private right shall be established with respect to State property: Provided, That the
same shall not apply to cases prescribed by Presidential Decree in regard of general
property.
 
Article 12 (Disposal of Ownerless Real Estate) (1) The office of general administration or the
head of a central government agency shall acquire any ownerless real estate as State
property. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) In acquiring any ownerless real estate as State property under paragraph (1), the office
of general administration or the head of a central government agency shall publicly
announce that a person with a justifiable right or other interested parties may raise an
objection against such acquisition within a prescribed period of not less than six months,
as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) If the office of general administration or the head of a central government agency
intends to acquire any ownerless real estate, it may file an application for registration of an
owner  with  the  competent  cadastral  office  under  the  Act  on  Establishment  and
Management of Spatial Data by attaching thereto such documents attesting that a public
announcement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2), only when no objection
is raised within the period referred to in paragraph (2). <Amended on Jun. 9, 2009; Mar.
30, 2011; Jun. 3, 2014>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(4) Any State property acquired pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be prohibited
from disposal for ten years from the date of its registration: Provided, That this shall not
apply where any special ground prescribed by Presidential Decree exists. <Amended on
Mar. 2, 2016>
 
Article 13 (Contributed Acceptance) (1) If any person intends to donate his/her property
falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 5 (1) to the State, the office of general
administration or the head of a central government agency (applicable only to the cases
where the head intends to accept contribution in the form of State property falling under
the special accounts or funds) may accept the donation, as prescribed by Presidential
Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) If it is impractical for the State to administer the property which is to be donated to the
State pursuant to paragraph (1), if the State does not requires it, or if the donation is
subject to a condition, the office of general administration or the head of a central
government agency concerned shall not accept the donation: Provided, That if it falls
under any of the following, the donation is not deemed to be subject to a condition:
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. Where the property concerned is donated on condition that the donator, his/her heir or
general successor is permitted to use the property to be donated as administrative
property free of charge;
2. Where an administrative property ceases to be used, a person who offers a facility to be
used as a substitute for the property, his/her heir or general successor donates the
substitute facility on the condition that the property falling into disuse under Article 55
(1) 3 is transferred to him/her to the extent of the expenses incurred by him/her.
 
Article 14 (Registration and Records) (1) When the office of general administration or the
head of a central government agency acquires any State property, it shall promptly
register, record such property, enter the change of the holder thereof, or take other
measures necessary for the preservation of relevant rights, as prescribed by Presidential
Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) In registering, recording, or entering the change of a holder of any State property, the
titleholder shall be the State, and the name of the competent central government agency
shall be entered together therewith: Provided, That in cases of depositing securities with a
corporation prescribed by Presidential Decree, such corporation is allowed to become the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
titleholder.
(3) Where the State property is inconsistent with the cadastral record, the head of a central
government agency, etc. shall take necessary measures such as the change of registration,
division,  merger,  or  change  of  land  category  under  the  Act  on  the  Establishment,
Management of Spacial Data. In such cases, fees under Article 106 of the Act on the
Establishment, Management of Spatial Data shall be exempted. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2,
2016>
 
Article 15 (Keeping and Handling Securities) (1) The office of general administration or the
head of a central government agency, etc., shall have the Bank of Korea or such other
corporation designated by Presidential Decree (hereinafter referred to as the "Bank of
Korea, etc.") keep and handle securities for and on behalf of the State. <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011>
(2) The Bank of Korea, etc., shall keep a book on safekeeping and handling of securities
and record supply and demand of securities. In such cases, electronic data may be used in
lieu of the book and the record of supply and demand of securities.
(3) The Bank of Korea, etc., shall draft reports and statements on the supply and demand
of securities, and submit them to the office of general administration and the Board of
Audit and Inspection. However, the statement of supply and demand submitted to the
Board of Audit and Inspection shall have documentary evidence attached thereto.
(4) The Bank of Korea, etc., shall undergo an inspection by the Board of Audit and
Inspection with respect to the supply and demand of securities.
(5) Where the Bank of Korea, etc., has inflicted damage on the State in connection with
safekeeping or handling of securities, it shall be liable for such damage under the Civil Act
and the Commercial Act.
 
Article 16 (Administrative Conversion of State Property) (1) Administrative conversion of State
property shall be made in any of the following methods: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. In cases of intending to make administrative conversion between general accounts and
special accounts/funds: Consultation between the office of general administration and
the head of a central government agency to which the relevant special accounts/funds
belong;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. In cases of intending to make administrative conversion between different special
accounts/funds: Consultation between heads of each central government agency to
which the relevant special accounts/funds belong.
(2) If consultation pursuant to paragraph (1) fails, the office of general administration shall
determine the competent head of a central government agency in view of the following
matters: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. How the property concerned is being administered at present and how it will be used;
2. Priority in achieving policy goals of the State.
[Title Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 17 (Compensatory Administrative Conversion, etc.) Where an administrative conversion
for any State property is made or its use is permitted between different accounts or funds,
it shall be made with compensation: Provided, That in cases falling under any of the
following subparagraphs, it may be made without any compensation: <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011; Mar. 31, 2020>
1. Where it is required directly for use as roads, rivers, harbors, airports, or public water
surfaces, or for any other public purposes;
2. Where it is agreed upon between the office of general administration and the head of a
central government agency or between heads of each central government agency that
administrative conversion is to be made without any compensation due to a cause falling
under any of the following items:
(a) Where it is expected that expenses for the appraisal assessment of the State property
to be subject to an administrative conversion will be excessive in comparison to the
value of the property concerned;
(b)  Where  it  is  impractical  to  secure  the  budget  for  making  a  compensatory
administrative  conversion  in  the  form  of  reciprocal  exchanges;
(c) Where it is necessary to efficiently use general property that belongs to the special
accounts or funds under Article 8 (3), subject to deliberation by the Committee for
Examination on State Property Policies under Article 26.
[Title Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 18 (Prohibition on Constructing Permanent Facilities) (1) Every person other than the
State shall be prohibited from constructing any types of structures, such as buildings and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
bridges, and other permanent facilities on State property: Provided, That the same shall not
apply to any of the following cases: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Mar. 2, 2016>
1. Where they are constructed on the condition that they be donated;
2. Where they are constructed as public facilities, the ownership of which shall revert to the
State pursuant to other statutes;
2-2. Where the relevant property is general property, the purchase price of which is being
paid in installments pursuant to Article 50 (2), as prescribed by Presidential Decree;
3. Where they enhance the utility of the State property without disrupting any use of it,
and they are deemed necessary by the head of a central government agency, etc. to
achieve the purposes of use for the State property under the loan contracts;
4. Where they are developed pursuant to Article 59-2.
(2) Where the construction of permanent facilities is allowed under the proviso to
paragraph (1), measures for having such person guarantee the payment of an amount
equivalent to the expenses and costs to be incurred in restoring the State property to its
original state, including removal of such permanent facilities, shall be taken pursuant to the
standards and procedures prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 18 (Prohibition on Constructing Permanent Facilities) (1) Every person other than the
State shall be prohibited from constructing any types of structures, such as buildings and
bridges, and other permanent facilities on State property: Provided, That the same shall not
apply to any of the following cases: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Mar. 2, 2016; Mar. 31,
2020>
1. Where they are constructed on the condition that they be donated;
2. Where they are constructed as public facilities, the ownership of which shall revert to the
State pursuant to other statutes;
2-2. Where the relevant property is general property, the purchase price of which is being
paid in installments pursuant to Article 50 (2), as prescribed by Presidential Decree;
3. Where a local government or a local public enterprise under the Local Public Enterprises
Act (hereinafter referred to as "local public enterprise") constructs the infrastructure
prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance such as cultural
facilities or public sports facilities for the lives of residents, among the infrastructure
defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on Public-Private Partnerships in
Infrastructure, following consultation with the head of the central government agency

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
having jurisdiction over the relevant State property, with approval of the office of general
administration;
4. Where they are developed pursuant to Article 59-2;
5. Where the school facilities defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the School Facilities
Projects Promotion Act are expanded or rebuilt in elementary schools, middle schools,
high schools, or special schools established before the Local Education Autonomy Act
(Act No. 4347) enters into force, following consultation with the office of general
administration and the head of a relevant central government agency, with approval of
the Minister of Education;
6. Where they enhance the utility of the State property without disrupting any use of it,
and they are deemed necessary by the head of a central government agency, etc. to
achieve the purposes of use for the State property under the loan contracts.
(2) Where the construction of permanent facilities is allowed under the proviso to
paragraph (1), measures for having such person guarantee the payment of an amount
equivalent to the expenses and costs to be incurred in restoring the State property to its
original state, including removal of such permanent facilities, shall be taken pursuant to the
standards and procedures prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 18
 
Article 19 (Consultation on Statutes concerning State Property) If the head of a central
government agency intends to draft, amend, or repeal any statute regulating the
administration/disposal of any State property, it shall consult with the office of general
administration and the Board of Audit and Inspection on their details. <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011>
 
Article 20 (Restrictions on Activities of Personnel) (1) No personnel engaged in duties with
regard to State property shall acquire the State property which they handle or exchange
such State property for their private property: Provided, That this shall not apply where
they obtain permission therefor from the office of general administration or the head of a
central government agency. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) Any activities in violation of the provisions of paragraph (1) shall be null and void.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            14                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
 
            CHAPTER II OFFICE OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
 
Article 21 (Audit by Office of General Administration) (1) The office of general administration
may require the head of a central government agency, etc., to report the status of
administration of State property under its jurisdiction or to submit materials in relation
thereto. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2)  The  head  of  a  central  government  agency  shall  report  the  status  of  unused
administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree under its jurisdiction to the office
of general administration by January 31 of every year. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) The office of general administration may audit the current status of State property
administration by the head of a central government agency, etc., and that of unused
administrative property under its jurisdiction, or take any other necessary measures.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 22 (Request for Abolition of Use, etc. by Office of General Administration) (1) The
office of general administration may request the head of a central government agency to
abolish or change the use of any State property under its jurisdiction, and have the head
of a central government agency effect an administrative conversion of, or transfer to the
office of general administration, the State property concerned. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011; Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) When the office of general administration intends to take measures prescribed by
paragraph (1), it shall notify the head of a central government agency thereof in advance
to give him/her an opportunity to present an opinion thereon. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011; Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) When the head of a central government agency fails to implement abolition of use,
etc., under the provisions of paragraph (1) without justifiable grounds, the office of general
administration may abolish the use ex officio. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) When the use of property has been abolished ex officio pursuant to paragraph (3), it
shall be deemed that the approval of use of the administrative property has been
withdrawn pursuant to Article 8-2. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011>
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            15                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 23 (Disposal of Disused Property) The office of general administration may, if deemed
necessary, designate methods of disposal of State property which has become general
property as a result of the abolition of its use, or take over and directly dispose of such
State property.
 
Article 24 (Designation of Heads of Central Government Agencies) With respect to State
property which is not under the jurisdiction of any head of a central government agency or
of which head of a central government agency having the jurisdiction thereof is not
obvious, the office of general administration shall designate the head of a central
government agency having jurisdiction.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 25 (Delegation or Consignment of General Administrative Duties) The office of general
administration may delegate part of its general administrative duties under this Act to the
Administrator of the Public Procurement Service or to the head of a local government, as
prescribed by Presidential Decree, or consign such duties to a government-invested
corporation or a juristic person designated by Presidential Decree out of those established
under special statutes. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 26 (Committee for Examination on State Property Policies) (1) In order to deliberate
on the matters referred to in each of the following subparagraphs concerning the
administration/disposal of State property, the Committee for Examination on State Property
Policies (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee") shall be established under the office of
general administration: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Mar. 31, 2020; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Matters concerning major policy directions for State property;
2. Important matters concerning amendment or repeal of statutes and systems related to
State property;
2-2. Matters concerning the withdrawal of approval of use of administrative property under
Article 8-2;
3. Important matters concerning establishment and amendment of the comprehensive plan
for State property under the provisions of Article 9;
4. Matters concerning the designation of head of a central government agency having
jurisdiction pursuant to Article 16(2) and the ex officio abolition of use under Articles
22(3);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            16                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4-2. Matters concerning administrative conversion without any compensation under
subparagraph 2 (c) of Article 17;
4-3.  Matters  concerning  the  administration/management  of  the  State  Property
Administration  Fund  established  under  Article  26-2;
5. Matters concerning development of general property under the provisions of Article 57;
6. Important matters concerning contribution in kind under the provisions of Article 60;
6-2. Matters concerning establishment, etc., of special cases of State property pursuant to
Article 6 of the Act on Regulation of Special Cases of State Property, and concerning
examination/estimation of special cases of State property pursuant to Article 7 of the
same Act;
7. Other matters deemed important by the office of general administration with regard to
the administration/disposal of State property.
(2) The Committee shall be comprised of 20 members or less, including chairpersons.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) The Chairperson of the Committee shall be the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and
the members of the Committee shall be appointed or commissioned by the Minister of
Strategy and Finance from among public officials belonging to the central administrative
agency and those persons who have abundant knowledge and experience in matters
related to State property. In such cases, members who are not public officials shall
constitute a majority of the Committee. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) For the efficient management of the Committee, sectorial subcommittees may be
established within the Committee. In such cases, deliberation by any subcommittee shall be
deemed as that of the Committee. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011>
(5) Other matters necessary for organization and management, etc., of the Committee and
the subcommittee, other than those specified in paragraphs (1) through (4), shall be
prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
            CHAPTER II-2 STATE PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION FUND
 
Article 26-2 (Establishment of State Property Administration Fund) The State Property
Administration Fund shall be established in order to enhance usefulness of State property
through smooth supply and demand and development of State property, etc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            17                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 26-3 (Raising State Property Administration Fund) The State Property Administration
Fund shall be raised from any of the following financial resources:
1. Money or property contributed by the government;
2. Money transferred from other accounts or funds;
3. Borrowed money under Article 26-4;
4. Revenues related to the general property (excluding securities) managed by the office of
general administration:
(a) Revenues associated with management of property such as rent and indemnity;
(b) Revenues associated with disposal of property such as selling off, exchange, etc.;
5. With respect to the general property under the jurisdiction of the office of general
administration, revenues associated with the administration or disposal pursuant to the
development under Article 57;
6. Other than those financial resources under subparagraphs 1 through 5, revenues
associated with the administration/management of the State Property Administration
Fund.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 26-4 (Borrowing Funds) (1) Where it is necessary to administer and manage the State
Property Administration Fund, the office of general administration may borrow funds, after
deliberation of the Committee, from finance companies, etc., or from other accounts or
funds at the expense of the State Property Administration Fund. <Amended on Dec. 18,
2012>
(2) Where it is necessary to manage the State Property Administration Fund, the office of
general administration may borrow funds temporarily at the expense of the State Property
Administration Fund. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012; Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) Funds temporarily borrowed under paragraph (2) shall be repaid within the relevant
fiscal year. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 26-5 (Purposes of State Property Administration Fund) (1) The State Property
Administration Fund shall be used for the purpose falling under any of the following
subparagraphs:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            18                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Payment of the expense necessary for acquisition of State property;
2. Payment of the expense necessary for administration or disposal of the general property
under the jurisdiction of the office of general administration;
3. Repayment of principal and interest of the loan under Article 26-4;
4. Payment of entrustment fee, etc., that is necessary for the administration/management
of the State Property Administration Fund pursuant to Article 26-6;
5. Payment of entrustment fee or amount of attribution, etc., that is necessary for
delegation/entrustment of affairs for administration/disposal of the real estate from
among the general property under the jurisdiction of the office of general administration
under Article 42 (1);
6. Payment of the expense necessary for the development under Article 57;
7. Transfers to other accounts or funds pursuant to Article 13 of the National Finance Act;
8. Payment of the expense necessary for the administration/management of the State
Property  Administration  Fund,  other  than  for  the  purposes  permitted  under
subparagraphs  1  through  7.
(2) The property acquired from the State Property Administration Fund shall be deemed to
be included in general accounts.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 26-6 (Administration/Management of State Property Administration Fund) (1) The
office of general administration shall manage and operate the State Property
Administration Fund.
(2) The office of general administration may entrust part of the affairs concerning
administration and management of the State Property Administration Fund to the Korea
Asset Management Corporation established under the Act on the Establishment of Korea
Asset Management Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Korea Asset Management
Corporation"), as prescribed by Presidential Decree.<Amended on May 19, 2011; Nov. 26, 2019>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 26-7 (Accounting Agency of State Property Administration Fund) (1) The office of
general administration shall appoint, from among its public officials, such officials as funds
revenue-collection official, funds treasurer, funds disbursement official, and the official in
charge of accounts of the funds who are to perform the affairs concerning revenue and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            19                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
expenditure of the State Property Administration Fund.
(2) Where the office of general administration has entrusted part of the affairs concerning
administration/management of the State Property Administration Fund to the Korea Asset
Management Corporation pursuant to Article 26-6 (2), the office shall appoint directors to
be in charge of the fund revenue and of acts giving rise to expenditure by the fund from
among the directors of the Korea Asset Management Corporation, and the expenditure
and accounting staffs for the fund from among the employees of the Korea Asset
Management  Corporation,  in  order  to  perform  accounting  of  the  State  Property
Administration Fund. In such cases, the directors to be in charge of the fund revenue shall
perform the duties of the fund revenue-collection official, the directors to be in charge of
acts giving rise to expenditure by the fund shall perform those of the fund treasurer, the
fund expenditure staffs shall those of fund disbursement official, and the fund accounting
staffs shall those of the public official in charge of accounts of the fund.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER III ADMINISTRATIVE PROPERTY
 
Article 27 (Restriction on Disposal) (1) No administrative property shall be disposed of:
Provided, That in cases falling under any of the following subparagraphs, the administrative
property may be exchanged or conceded: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Where property acquired in exchange for public-owned property or private property is
intended to be managed as administrative property;
2. Where the administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree is conceded to a
local government which intends to directly use it for official or public use.
(2) The provisions of Article 54 (2) through (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the property
exchanged pursuant to paragraph (1) 1, and the provisions of Article 55 (2) and (3) to the
property conceded pursuant to paragraph (1) 2. In such cases, "general property" shall be
deemed "administrative property".
(3) Matters relating to confirmation of the exchange referred to in paragraph (1) 1, such as
purpose and price of exchange, matters relating to consultation with the office of general
administration for mutatis mutandis application of Article 55 (3) regarding the concession
referred to in paragraph (1) 2, and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            20                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Presidential Decree.
 
Article 27-2 (Appointment of Official in Charge of State Property, etc.) (1) In order to
efficiently perform the affairs concerning the administration or disposal of State property
under his/her control, the head of a central government agency shall appoint an official in
charge of State property, from among the central government agency’s senior civil officials
in a position exercising a general control over planning affairs.
(2) Duties of the official in charge of State property are as follows:
1. Affairs involving planning the administration or disposal of State property under the
control of the head of a central government agency under Article 9 (2), and those
involving the enforcement plan under paragraph (7) of the same Article;
2. Affairs concerning the report on the administration of State property under Article 69;
3. In addition to those affairs under subparagraphs 1 and 2, affairs as prescribed by
Presidential Decree in connection with administration/disposal of State property.
(3) In lieu of the appointment of an official in charge of State property, the head of the
central government agency may designate a position in an agency under the control of the
central government agency.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 28 (Delegation of Administrative Duties) (1) The head of a central government agency
may delegate administrative duties concerning administrative property under its control to
its public officials, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) The head of a central government agency may appoint a public official to perform part
of the duties delegated to the public officials referred to in paragraph (1). <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) The head of a central government agency may delegate its administrative duties
concerning administrative property under its control to public officials of other central
government agencies, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) The head of a central government agency may delegate part of its administrative duties
concerning administrative property under its jurisdiction to the head of a local government
or public officials thereof, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            21                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(5) In lieu of the delegation of duties pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (4), the head of a
central government agency may designate a position established in the related institution.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 29 (Entrustment of Administration) (1) When it is necessary for the efficient
administration of administrative property, the head of a central government agency may
entrust the administration of such property (hereinafter referred to as "entrustment of
administration") to a person other than a State agency. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) Any person who is entrusted with administration according to the provisions of
paragraph (1) may, with the prior approval of the competent head of a central government
agency, use and benefit from a portion of the entrusted property, or allow another person
to make use of and benefit from it. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3)  Qualifications  of  persons  to  be  entrusted  with  administration,  period  for  the
entrustment of administration, usage fees of the property of which administration has been
entrusted, report on the status of administration, or other necessary matters relating to the
entrustment of administration shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 30 (Permission for Use) (1) The head of a central government agency may grant
permission to use any administrative property only to the following extent: <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
1.  Property  for  official  use,  property  for  public  use,  and  property  for  government
enterprises:  To  an  extent  not  detrimental  to  its  use  or  purpose;
2. Property for preservation: To the extent necessary for the fulfillment of the preservation
purpose.
(2) No person who has been granted permission for use under paragraph (1) shall allow
another person to use and benefit from the relevant property: Provided, That where a
person who has been granted permission for use of any donated property is the donator
of such property, his/her heir, or other general successor, it is allowed for the person who
has been granted permission to have another person use and benefit from such property
upon approval from the head of a central government agency. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011>
(3) Where it is deemed that the use of and benefit from the property under the proviso to
paragraph (2) is detrimental to the relevant use or purpose, or makes it impractical to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            22                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
reinstate, the head of a central government agency shall not grant approval for it.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 30 (Permission for Use) (1) The head of a central government agency may grant
permission to use any administrative property only to the following extent: <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
1.  Property  for  official  use,  property  for  public  use,  and  property  for  government
enterprises:  To  an  extent  not  detrimental  to  its  use  or  purpose;
2. Property for preservation: To the extent necessary for the fulfillment of the preservation
purpose.
(2) No person who has been granted permission for use under paragraph (1) shall allow
another person to use and benefit from the relevant property: Provided, That such person
may allow another person to use and benefit from the property in any of the following
cases with the approval of the head of a central government agency: <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011; Mar. 31, 2020>
1. Where a person who has been granted permission for use of any donated property is
the donator of such property, his/her heir, or other general successor;
2. Where a local government or a local public enterprise is granted permission for use to
use and benefit from administrative property as infrastructure under Article 18 (1) 3 and
allows institutions prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as a local public enterprise, to
use and benefit from such administrative property.
(3) Where it is deemed that the use of and benefit from the property under the proviso to
paragraph (2) is detrimental to the relevant use or purpose, or makes it impractical to
reinstate, the head of a central government agency shall not grant approval for it.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 30
 
Article 31 (Methods of Permission for Use) (1) Permission for use of any administrative
property shall be granted by open competitive bidding after public notice thereof:
Provided, That where it is deemed necessary in view of the purpose, nature, size, etc., of
permission for use, eligibility to participate in the bidding may be limited, or restrictive
tender or private contract may be used, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            23                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) Where open competitive bidding is conducted pursuant to paragraph (1), the invitation
to bid, bid opening, and a notice of award of contract shall be made public by using an
information processing device which has been designated and announced as such by the
office of general administration. In such cases, the head of a central government agency
may, when it deems necessary, publish such fact in daily newspapers, etc., as well and
collectively make public announcement concerning multiple bidding rounds for the same
property. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) The provisions of the Act on Contracts to which the State is a Party shall apply mutatis
mutandis to permission for use of administrative property, except as prescribed in this Act.
 
Article 32 (Usage Fees) (1) When permission for use of administrative property is granted, the
usage fees shall be collected each year in accordance with the rates and calculation
methods specified by Presidential Decree: Provided, That where the annual fees are less
than the amount specified by Presidential Decree, the fees for the period of permission for
use may be entirely collected at the same time. <Amended on Mar. 2, 2016>
(2)  Usage  fees  under  paragraph  (1)  may  be  paid  in  installments,  as  prescribed  by
Presidential Decree. In such cases, where the annual usage fees are equal to or above the
amount prescribed by Presidential Decree, guaranty money shall be deposited or a
performance guarantee shall be provided by the person who is granted permission for use
within the limit of the amount prescribed by Presidential Decree when such permission is
granted (including cases of renewal of permission).
(3) If the head of a central government agency delegates its duties concerning permission
for use under Article 30 to the head of a local government, Article 42 (6) shall apply
mutatis mutandis. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) Where the fees are entirely collected at the same time pursuant to the proviso to
paragraph (1), notwithstanding the increase or decrease for the period of permission for
use, no fees shall be collected additionally or returned. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2016>
 
Article 33 (Adjustment of Usage Fees) (1) The head of a central government agency may
adjust usage fees where a person (a heir or other general successor shall be deemed the
same person as his/her predecessor) continuously uses, or benefits from, the same
administrative property for over one year within the permitted period of use in cases
prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Dec. 18, 2012>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            24                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) The method of calculating usage fees for the relevant year, which are adjusted under
paragraph (1), shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the calculation of relevant usage
fees where administrative property subject to the payment of usage fees or occupation
fees pursuant to other Acts becomes subject to the payment of usage fees under this Act.
 
Article 34 (Exemption from or Reduction of Usage Fees) (1) In any of the following cases, the
head of a central government agency may exempt the relevant usage fees, as prescribed
by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. When permission for use of any donated property is granted to the donator, his/her heir
or other general successor for the purposes of making it administrative property;
1-2. When a person who plans to build and donate a new building, etc., intends to use the
site for the new building, etc., during the period of construction thereof;
2. When permission for use is granted to a local government which intends to directly use
the administrative property for official or public use or non-profit public service;
3. When permission for use is granted to a public organization defined by Presidential
Decree which intends to directly use the administrative property for non-profit public
service.
(2) Where administrative property that has been granted permission for use becomes
unusable due to natural disasters or disasters referred to in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of
the Framework Act on the Management of Disasters and Safety, usage fees for the period
during which the use of the administrative property was interrupted may be exempted.
(3)  Where  the  head  of  a  central  government  agency  grants  permission  for  use  of
administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree including property which is less
useful or requires repair in consideration of form, scale, or service life of the administrative
property, he/she may give exemption from or reduce usage fees as prescribed by
Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 13, 2018>
[Title Amended on Mar. 13, 2018]
 
Article 35 (Period for Permission for Use) (1) The period for permission for use of any
administrative property shall be five years or less: Provided, That in cases under Article 34
(1) 1, it shall be within the period wherein the total sum of usage fees reaches the value of
the property donated.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            25                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) With respect to the property, the period for permission under paragraph (1) for which
expires, the previous period for permission may be renewable within the extent not
exceeding five years, except for the cases prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That
such renewal shall be allowed on only one occasion, except for cases where the permission
for use of the property may be granted by private contracts.
(3) Any person who intends to renew the permission pursuant to paragraph (2) shall file an
application with the head of a central government agency at least one month prior to the
expiration of the period of permission. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Jun. 9, 2020>
 
Article 36 (Cancellation or Withdrawal of Permission for Use) (1) If any person who has
obtained permission for use of administrative property falls under any of the following
subparagraphs, the head of a central government agency may cancel or withdraw such
permission: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. If he/she obtains the said permission by false statements, presentation of defective
documentary evidence, or other unlawful means;
2. If he/she allows another person to make use of or benefit from the property for which
permission for use has been granted, in violation of Article 30 (2);
3. If he/she neglects the preservation of the said property or violates the purpose of its
use;
4. If he/she fails to pay the usage fees within the payment deadline, or fails to deposit
guaranty money or provide performance guarantee pursuant to the latter part of Article
32 (2);
5. If he/she has altered the original state of the property for which permission for use has
been  granted,  without  obtaining  approval  from  the  head  of  the  relevant  central
government  agency.
(2) If the administrative property for which permission for use has been granted is directly
required by the State or a local government for official or public use, the head of a central
government agency may withdraw such permission. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) If a person who has obtained permission for use suffers a loss due to withdrawal
referred to in paragraph (2), agencies which intend to use such property shall compensate
such person for the loss, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(4) The head of a central government agency shall, where it has canceled or withdrawn
permission for use under paragraph (1) or (2), and where a person uses and benefits from

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            26                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
the property donated under the proviso to Article 30 (2), notify him/her of the facts of
such cancellation or withdrawal. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 37 (Hearings) If the head of a central government agency intends to cancel or
withdraw permission for use of any administrative property pursuant to the provisions of
Article 36, it shall hold a hearing thereon. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 38 (Restoration to Original State) Where the permission period expires or permission
for use is revoked or withdrawn pursuant to Article 36, any person who has received
permission for use of administrative property shall restore the relevant property to its
original state: Provided, That where the head of a central government agency has, in
advance, approved alterations thereof, he/she may return it in the altered state. <Amended
on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 39 (Sanctions against Negligence of Administration) If a person who has received
permission for use of any administrative property causes damage to such property by
neglecting his/her administrative duties, additional dues may be collected from him/her,
pursuant to Presidential Decree, in addition to the usage fees within the limit not
exceeding the amount of such usage fees.
 
Article 40 (Abolition of Use) (1) Where administrative property falls under any of the
following cases, the head of a central government agency shall abolish the use of the
relevant administrative property without delay: <Amended on Aug. 9, 2017>
1. Where administrative property is not used for administrative purposes;
2. Where administrative property has not been used for five years from the date of
determining its use as administrative property;
3. Where administrative property is necessary for development under Article 57.
(2) If the head of a central government agency abolishes the use of administrative property
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1), it shall, without delay, transfer the relevant
property to the office of general administration: Provided, That this shall not apply to the
property falling under any of the following subparagraphs: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. Property the use of which has been abolished for the purpose of administrative
conversion, exchange or transfer;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            27                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Property prescribed under Article 5 (1) 2;
3. Property located on, and necessary to the operation of, an airport/harbor or industrial
complex;
4. Property that the office of general administration has designated as the one to be
administered or disposed of by the head of a central government agency or to be
transferred by the head of a central government agency to the head of other central
government agency.
 
Article 40-2 (Pre-Contracts for Preferential Use) (1) Where the use of administrative property
is abolished under Article 40 (1), the head of a central government agency may file an
application with the office of general administration to preferentially approve the use of
the relevant property under Article 8 (4) (hereinafter referred to as "pre-contract for
preferential use") in preparation for future administrative demand, within one month from
the date of abolition of use, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) Upon receipt of an application under paragraph (1), the office of general administration
may approve pre-contracts for preferential use in consideration of the business plan
submitted by the head of a central government agency, administrative demand of other
institutions, etc.
(3) Where the head of a central government agency fails to obtain approval of use under
Article 8 (4) from the office of general administration within three years from the date
when approval of pre-contracts for preferential use is obtained under paragraph (2), such
pre-contracts for preferential use shall be null and void.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 31, 2020]
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 40-2
 
            CHAPTER IV GENERAL PROPERTY
               SECTION 1 Common Provisions
 
Article 41 (Disposal, etc.) (1) A general property may be leased or disposed of. <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) If a building or other facilities not scheduled for any use by the State fall under any of
the following, the head of a central government agency, etc. may remove such building or
facilities: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            28                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Where their structures pose a substantial risk to the safety of the public;
2. Where their maintenance and repair costs are excessive in comparison to their property
value;
3. Where their removal is deemed unavoidable by the head of a central government
agency, etc., due to their location, form, use, deterioration, etc.
 
Article 42 (Delegation or Entrustment of Work of Administration or Disposal) (1) The office of
general administration may partially delegate the work to administer and dispose of
general property under its jurisdiction, to affiliated public officials, or to the head of the
relevant central government agency or its public officials, or to the head of the relevant
local government or its public officials, or may entrust such work to government-invested
corporations, financial institutions, investment traders, investment brokers, or corporations
established under special Acts, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011>
(2) The office of general administration may be entrusted with part of the work of
administering or disposing of general property provided for in Article 8 (3). <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) Where the head of a central government agency intends to develop any general
property belonging to the special accounts or funds under his/her jurisdiction pursuant to
Article 59, he/she may entrust such property by applying mutatis mutandis paragraph (1).
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4)  Articles  28  and  29  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  where  the  head  of  a  central
government  agency  or  an  agency  to  whom  the  delegation  has  been  made  under
paragraph (1) administers or disposes of any general property pursuant to paragraph (1).
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(5) The office of general administration or the head of a central government agency which
has delegated or entrusted his/her or its work of administering or disposing of general
property pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4) may withdraw such delegation or entrustment
where it deems that the delegated or entrusted person does the relevant work improperly
or where it is necessary to make general property pooled for administration purposes.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Dec. 18, 2012>
(6) Rent fees, proceeds from sale, gains from development, or indemnity of general
property prescribed by Presidential Decree, the administration or disposal of which have

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            29                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
been delegated or entrusted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4) may be vested in the
delegated or entrusted persons, as prescribed by Presidential Decree, notwithstanding
Article 17 of the National Finance Act and Article 7 of the Management of the National
Funds Act.
 
Article 42 (Delegation or Entrustment of Work of Administration or Disposal) (1) The office of
general administration may partially delegate the work to administer and dispose of
general property under its jurisdiction, to affiliated public officials, or to the head of the
relevant central government agency or its public officials, or to the head of the relevant
local government or its public officials, or may entrust such work to government-invested
corporations, financial institutions, investment traders, investment brokers, or corporations
established under special Acts, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar.
30, 2011>
(2) The office of general administration may be entrusted with part of the work of
administering or disposing of general property provided for in Article 8 (3) and, if
necessary, may re-entrust the entrusted work to a person prescribed by Presidential Decree
who is a corporation established under special Acts, following consultation with the head
of the central government agency that entrusts the work. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011;
Mar. 31, 2020>
(3) Where the head of a central government agency intends to develop any general
property belonging to the special accounts or funds under his/her jurisdiction pursuant to
Article 59, he/she may entrust such property by applying mutatis mutandis paragraph (1).
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4)  Articles  28  and  29  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  where  the  head  of  a  central
government  agency  or  an  agency  to  whom  the  delegation  has  been  made  under
paragraph (1) administers or disposes of any general property pursuant to paragraph (1).
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(5) The office of general administration or the head of a central government agency which
has delegated or entrusted his/her or its work of administering or disposing of general
property pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4) may withdraw such delegation or entrustment
where it deems that the delegated or entrusted person does the relevant work improperly
or where it is necessary to make general property pooled for administration purposes.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Dec. 18, 2012>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            30                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(6) Rent fees, proceeds from sale, gains from development, or indemnity of general
property prescribed by Presidential Decree, the administration or disposal of which have
been delegated or entrusted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4) may be vested in the
delegated or entrusted persons, as prescribed by Presidential Decree, notwithstanding
Article 17 of the National Finance Act and Article 7 of the Management of the National
Funds Act.
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 42
 
Article 43 (Contract Procedures) (1) Contracts concerning disposal of general property shall
be established by open competitive bidding after public notice thereof: Provided, That
where it is deemed necessary in view of the purpose, nature, size, etc., of permission for
use, eligibility to participate in the bidding may be limited, or restrictive tender or private
contract may be used as prescribed by Presidential Decree and that, in cases of securities,
they may be done by means prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) In cases of open competitive bidding referred to in paragraph (1), the provisions of
Article 31 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the relevant public notice and procedures.
 
Article 44 (Pricing of Property to be Disposed of) The price of general property to be
disposed of shall be determined in consideration of the market price, as prescribed by
Presidential Decree.
 
Article 44-2 (Restriction on Disposal of Securities Paid in Kind) (1) The securities paid in kind
under Article 73 of the Inheritance Tax and Gift Tax Act may not be disposed of to a
person who paid in kind or a person prescribed by Presidential Decree at the amount less
than the value at the time of collection: Provided, That this shall not apply in cases of
selling securities trading in the securities markets under Article 8-2 (4) 1 of the Financial
Investment Services and Capital Markets Act in such markets.
(2) To verify if a person is subject to restriction on disposal under the main sentence of
paragraph (1), the office of general administration may request the head of a relevant
administrative agency or a public institution under the Act on the Management of Public
Institutions  to  submit  necessary  materials.  In  such  cases,  the  head  of  a  relevant
administrative agency including others shall comply with such request unless there is a
compelling reason not to do so.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            31                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(3) Necessary matters including the scope of or procedure for submitting materials under
paragraph (2) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 13, 2018]
 
Article 45 (Pre-Contract for Exploitation, Filling, Reclamation, and Afforestation) (1) General
property may be reserved for loan, sale, or transfer, as prescribed by Presidential Decree,
to implement the projects of exploitation, filling, reclamation, or afforestation on the
condition of the completion of such projects.
(2) In cases under paragraph (1), the contractor may use or benefit from pre-contracted
property or the completed portion of the project during the period for the relevant project
at no charge.
(3) Pre-contracts pursuant to paragraph (1) may be rescinded or terminated if the
contractor fails to commence the project within the designated period or is deemed
unable to complete the project. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(4) If a portion of a pre-contracted project is completed at the time of a rescission or
termination pursuant to paragraph (3), all or part of the completed portion may be loaned,
sold or transferred to the contractor only if such loan, etc., does not conflict with the
public interest.
(5) If the head of a central government agency, etc., intends to conclude a pre-contract for
sale or transfer of any property under its control pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
(1), it shall consult with the office of general administration. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
            SECTION 2 Loans
 
Article 46 (Loan Periods) (1) The loan period for general property shall not exceed any of the
following: Provided, That in cases of constructing permanent facilities under the proviso to
Article 18 (1), it shall not exceed ten years: <Amended on Dec. 26, 2017>
1. Land and its fixtures to be afforested: Twenty years;
2. A building whose facilities are repaired at the borrower’s expense (limited to cases
prescribed by Presidential Decree): Ten years;
3. Land and its fixtures, other than those in subparagraphs 1 and 2: Five years;
4. Any other property: One year.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            32                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) With respect to the property, the loan period under paragraph (1) of which has expired,
the previous loan contract may be renewed to the extent not exceeding such loan period
except for the cases prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That such loan contract
may be renewable on only one occasion, except for cases where the loan is rendered by
means of a private contract.
(3) Any person who intends to renew the loan contract under the provisions of paragraph
(2) shall file an application with the head of a central government agency, etc., at least one
month prior to the expiry of the loan period. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the loan period of general property developed pursuant
to Articles 58 and 59-2 may be set within 30 years, and may be extended only once for up
to 20 years. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2016>
 
Article 47 (Rent and Rescission of Contracts) (1) Articles 30 (2), 31 (1) and (2), 32, 33, 34 (1) 2
and 3, 34 (2) and (3), 36, and 38 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the restriction on loan,
rent, exemption from or reduction of rent, rescission or termination of loan contracts, or
other cases regarding any general property. <Amended on Mar. 13, 2018>
(2) Despite paragraph (1), with respect to rent, all or part of annual rent may be received
after converting it into loan deposit, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) Where the term of a loan expires or a loan agreement is rescinded or terminated, the
head of the relevant central government agency, etc., shall return the loan deposit
prescribed under paragraph (2). In such cases, if there are rents or utility bills, etc., that the
person who made the loan failed to pay, the head of a central government agency shall
return the loan deposit after excluding the unpaid amount.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 47-2 (Exemption from or Reduction of Rent) Where the State possesses the other
person’s property and the owner of the relevant property possesses the general property
at the same time (hereinafter referred to as the "reciprocal possession"), the head of a
central government agency may reduce or exempt the owner of the relevant property from
a rent of general property in his/her possession.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2016]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            33                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
 
            SECTION 3 Sale
 
Article 48 (Sale) (1) General property may be sold in cases other than those falling under any
of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where the head of a central government agency requests for approval of use or for
administrative conversion of administrative property under Article 8 (4) in order to use
the general property for administrative purposes;
2. Where the disposal of general property is restricted pursuant to the National Land
Planning and Utilization Act or other Acts;
3. Where the general property belongs to the property subject to the restriction on
disposal stipulated in the guidelines for disposal under Article 9 (4) 3, in consideration of
the necessity of future administrative purposes, etc.;
4. Where the office of general administration or the head of a central government agency
designates  it  as  a  property  in  need  of  administration  by  State  as  prescribed  by
Presidential  Decree,  other  than  the  cases  under  subparagraphs  1  through  3.
(2) Where the head of a central government agency intends to sell off the general property
prescribed by Presidential Decree, from among the general property belonging to the
special accounts or funds under the control of the central government agency.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 49 (Sale by Specifying Uses) General property may be sold to a purchaser by
specifying its use and the period for such use under conditions prescribed by Presidential
Decree.
 
Article 50 (Payment of Proceeds from Sale) (1) Proceeds from the sale of any general
property shall be paid, as prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That the period for
payment may be extended as permitted by Presidential Decree.
(2) If it is deemed impractical to have the proceeds from the sale of general property paid
in a lump sum and it is permitted by Presidential Decree, the payment may be made in
installments over a period not exceeding 20 years, with interest thereon as prescribed by
Presidential Decree in consideration of the one-year fixed deposit interest rate.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            34                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 51 (Transfer of Ownership, etc.) (1) In cases of selling any general property, transfer of
the ownership for the relevant property shall be made only after the full payment of the
proceeds from the sale of such property.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), if the proceeds from sale shall be paid
in installments under the provisions of Article 50 (2), and if it is prescribed by Presidential
Decree that the transfer of ownership is essential for the smooth execution of public works
projects, etc., ownership may be transferred even before the proceeds from the sale of the
relevant property are fully paid. In such cases, necessary measures for securing claims, such
as creation of mortgage, shall be taken.
 
Article 52 (Rescission of Contracts for Sale) A contract for the sale of general property may
be rescinded in the following cases:
1. If the purchaser fails to make timely payment of the proceeds from sale;
2.  If  the  purchase  is  based  on  false  statements,  presentation  of  false  supporting
documents,  or  the  use  of  other  unlawful  means  by  the  purchaser;
3. Where a property is sold by specifying its use under Article 49, if the purchaser does not
use the property for such designated purpose within the designated period or ceases to
use the property for the designated purpose before the end of the designated period.
 
Article 53 (Purchase of Buildings, etc.) Where a contract for sale of general property is
rescinded, and where the head of a central government agency notifies of its intent to
purchase buildings and other structures installed on the relevant property at a price as
determined pursuant to the provisions of Article 44, the relevant owner may not refuse it
without justifiable grounds. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
            SECTION 4 Exchange
 
Article 54 (Exchange) (1) In any of the following cases, land, buildings, fixtures on land, or
movable assets which are general property may be exchanged for land, buildings, fixtures
on land, or movable assets which are public or private property: <Amended on Dec. 18,
2012; Mar. 2, 2016>
1. Where it is necessary for the State to directly use it or them as administrative property;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            35                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Where it is necessary to increase the usefulness of property by making small scale
general property pooled for administrative purposes;
3. Where it is impractical to dispose of the relevant property by other methods, including
sale, while it is necessary to increase the value and usability of general property;
4. Where it is requested to exchange with the general property in the possession due to
any extenuating circumstances prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as being in the
state of reciprocal possession, and impractical for the owner of the relevant property to
enter and access by the private land only.
(2) The types, prices, etc., of property exchanged pursuant to paragraph (1) may be
prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) If the properties exchanged pursuant to paragraph (1) differ in value, the difference
shall be paid in cash. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(4) When the head of a central government agency, etc., intends to exchange general
property, it shall report to the Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011>
 
            SECTION 5 Concession
 
Article 55 (Concession) (1) General property may be conceded in any of the following cases:
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Dec. 18, 2012>
1. Where the general property prescribed by Presidential Decree is to be conceded to a
local government which intends to directly use it for official or public purposes;
2. Where the property for public purposes converted into general property due to the
abolition of its use is to be conceded to the local government or public organization that
has paid the cost of maintenance and preservation thereof as prescribed by Presidential
Decree, to the extent of such cost;
3. Where the administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree, which falls into
disuse, is to be conceded to a person who provides substitute facilities that has the same
use as the property falling into disuse, his/her successor or other general successor to
the extent of the cost of providing such facilities;
4. Where the property prescribed by Presidential Decree which needs not to be preserved
or utilized by the State and cannot be leased, sold or exchanged, is to be conceded.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            36                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) If the property transferred pursuant to paragraph (1) 1 is used for a purpose, other than
the original purpose for which it is conceded, within ten years from the concession, such
concession may be canceled.
(3) Where the head of a central government agency, etc., intends to concede general
property  pursuant  to  paragraph  (1),  it  shall  consult  with  the  office  of  general
administration: Provided, That this shall not apply where general property whose value
does not exceed the value prescribed by Presidential Decree is conceded provided for in
paragraph (1) 3. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Dec. 26, 2017>
 
Article 56 Deleted. <Mar. 30, 2011>
 
            SECTION 6 Development
 
Article 57 (Development) (1) General property may be loaned or sold after being developed
as a source of revenue for the State Property Administration Fund in accordance with the
management plan of the State Property Administration Fund, or after being developed in
accordance with Articles 58, 59, and 59-2. <Amended on Mar. 13, 2018>
(2) Development under paragraph (1) means an act referred to in each of the following:
<Newly Inserted on Mar. 13, 2018>
1. Acts including building, substantial repair, and remodeling under Article 2 of the
Building Act;
2. Acts to create land under the Special Act on Public Housing, the National Land Planning
and Utilization Act, the Urban Development Act, the Act on the Improvement of Urban
Areas and Residential Environments, the Industrial Sites and Development Act, the
Housing Act, the Housing Site Development Promotion Act, and other statutes prescribed
by Presidential Decree.
(3) Development under paragraph (2) 2 limits to the development entrusted pursuant to
Article 59. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 13, 2018>
(4) In cases of developing general property under paragraph (1), any of the following
matters shall be considered: <Amended on Mar. 13, 2018>
1. Soundness of financial management, such as increase of fiscal revenue;
2. Convenience for the public, such as securing public facilities;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            37                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
3. Contribution to local development, such as improvement of surrounding environments;
4. Other necessities for achieving administrative objectives of the State, other than the
matters prescribed in subparagraphs 1 through 3.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 58 (Trust Development) (1) General property may be entrusted to a trust operator
which handles real estate trusts for its development, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) If the head of a central government agency intends to develop the general property
under the agency's special accounts or funds under the provisions of paragraph (1), it shall
consult with the office of general administration as to the selection of a trust operator,
trust period, trust fees, limits on the borrowing of funds, use of facilities, etc., under
conditions prescribed by Presidential Decree. The same shall also apply in cases of
modifying important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, from among matters
consulted upon. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) If a person delegated or entrusted with duties for administration/disposal under the
provisions of Article 42 (1) intends to develop a property pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she
shall obtain approval from the office of general administration for the selection of a trust
operator, trust period, trust fees, limits on the borrowing of funds, use of facilities, etc.,
under conditions prescribed by Presidential Decree. The same shall also apply in cases of
modifying important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, from among approved
matters.
(4) Methods of vesting proceeds from the trust in the State pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (1) and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 59 (Entrusted Development) (1) Any person delegated or entrusted with the duties for
administration and disposal under the provisions of Article 42 (1) and (3) (hereafter in this
Article referred to as "trustee") may develop the general property that he/she is entrusted
with.
(2) If a trustee intends to develop a property under the provisions of paragraph (1), he/she
shall obtain approval therefor from the office of general administration or the head of a
central government agency for entrustment period, entrustment fees, limits on the
borrowing of funds, use of facilities, etc., under conditions prescribed by Presidential
Decree. The same shall also apply in cases of modifying important matters prescribed by

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            38                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Presidential Decree, from among approved matters. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) If the head of a central government agency intends to approve development under the
provisions of paragraph (2), it shall consult with the office of general administration as
prescribed by Presidential Decree. The same shall also apply in cases of modifying
important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, from among matters consulted upon.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(4) Methods of vesting proceeds from entrusted development in the State pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (1) and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by Presidential
Decree.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 43, 44, 46, and 47, methods of loan, sale and
administration of property pursuant to paragraph (1) may be determined after the trustee
consults with the office of general administration or the head of a central government
agency. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 59-2 (Development through Participation of Private Sector) (1) The office of general
administration may jointly develop any of the following general property with the private
business entities prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Mar. 2, 2016>
1. Property that has not been in use for at least past five years;
2. Property deemed necessary to be developed through the deliberation of the Committee.
(2) The office of general administration may make an investment, in accordance with the
management plan for the State Property Administration Fund, in the special purpose
company  for  development  of  State-owned  land  that  is  to  be  incorporated  for  the
development under paragraph (1) (referring to the investment company pursuant to Article
51-2 (1) 9 of the Corporate Tax Act that needs to be established jointly with private
business entities to develop State-owned land; hereinafter the same shall apply), and in the
asset management company (referring to the asset management company prescribed by
Presidential Decree that has been entrusted from the special purpose company for
development  of  State  owned  land  with  performance  of  affairs  on
administration/management and disposal of assets; hereinafter the same shall apply). In
such cases, the amount of investment by State in the special purpose company for
development of State-owned land shall not exceed 30/100 of the capital of the subject
company.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            39                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(3) A special purpose company for development of State owned land shall not finance its
project from the person falling under any of the following subparagraphs (including the
persons prescribed by Presidential Decree as related with the following persons) in an
amount exceeding 30/100 of the total project cost:
1. Public institutions under the Act on the Management of Public Institutions;
2. Public corporations or similar entities established under special Acts.
(4) Except as otherwise expressly prescribed by this Act, the special purpose company for
development of State-owned land and the asset management company shall be governed
by the provisions of the Commercial Act.
(5) Where the office of general administration, beyond the scope determined by the
management plan for the State Property Administration Fund, intends to enter into a
contract that would encumber the State, it shall be authorized by a prior resolution of the
National Assembly.
(6) Where the development under paragraph (1) is completed and the purpose of
investment is achieved, the office of general administration shall collect the share invested
pursuant to paragraph (2) as prescribed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 59-3 (Procedure of Development through Participation of Private Sector) (1) If the
office of general administration intends to develop general property pursuant to Article 59-
2, it shall establish a master plan on the development project through participation of
private sector including the matters under each of the following subparagraphs (hereinafter
referred to as "master plan on development through participation of private sector"):
1. Matters on property to be developed and on purpose of facilities to be developed;
2. Matters on estimated investment amount, construction period, and scale of development
project;
3. Matters on the findings of a pre-arranged feasibility study on a project (including a
preliminary feasibility study pursuant to Article 38 of the National Finance Act);
4. Matters on recruitment of private business entities;
5. Matters on procedure and method of selecting negotiation partners;
6. Other important matters on development.
(2) The office of general administration shall submit the master plan on development
through participation of private sector for deliberation by the Committee after the relevant

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            40                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
subcommittee’s deliberation thereon under Article 26 (4).
(3) For the purpose of a specialized deliberation by the Committee under paragraph (2),
the office of general administration shall form and operate, as prescribed by the Minister
of Strategy and Finance, an advisory group for development through participation of
private sector, consisting of those experts in the areas of profit-analysis and technology. In
such cases, the advisory group for development through participation of private sector
shall submit its written opinion on the master plan on development through participation
of private sector to the Committee.
(4) Where the office of general administration intends to change important matters
prescribed  by  Presidential  Decree,  on  the  master  plan  on  development  through
participation of private sector such as criteria and method of selecting negotiation
partners, paragraph (2) shall applies mutatis mutandis.
(5) The office of general administration shall publicly recruit and select such private
business entities as prescribed in paragraph (1). In such cases, the office shall publicly
announce (including the method of posting on internet) the matters on criteria and
method, etc. of selecting negotiation partners.
(6) Where a private business entity intends to participate in the development project
through participation of private sector that is publicly announced in accordance with
paragraph (5), it shall prepare a letter of proposal for the business plan on development
through participation of private sector including details of feasibility study, criteria of profit
distribution, and other matters prescribed by Presidential Decree (hereinafter referred to as
"business proposal") and submit it to the office of general administration.
(7) With respect to the business proposal submitted in accordance with paragraph (6), the
office of general administration shall designate negotiation partners after the evaluation by
the evaluation group for project development through participation of private sector,
where private professionals form the majority, and the deliberation by the Committee.
(8) The office of general administration shall enter into a business agreement in order to
promote the development project pursuant to discussion with the negotiation partners
designated under paragraph (7). In such cases, matters of restriction on financing business
expense under Article 59-2 (3) and on liability upon violation of the requirement of
limitation on funding shall be included in the business agreement.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            41                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(9) Matters on formation/operation of the evaluation group for development through
participation of private sector in accordance with paragraph (7) shall be prescribed by
Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 59-4 (Evaluation of Project of Development through Participation of Private Sector) (1)
The office of general administration shall annually evaluate the progress and performance
of the development project through participation of private sector, and report its findings
to the Committee.
(2)  Where  the  office  of  general  administration  determines  that  objectives  of  the
development  project  is  unattainable  due  to  violation  of  Article  59-2  (3)  or  poor
performance of the project, etc., according to the findings of the evaluation under
paragraph (1), it shall take necessary measures such as collection of invested share or other
measures, following the deliberation of the Committee.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 59-5 (Liability of Compensation of Damage) When the person who has been
designated as a negotiation partner pursuant to Article 59-3 (7) inflicts damage on the
State with a false business proposal, he/she shall be liable to compensate the State for
such damage.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
            SECTION 7 Contributions In Kind
 
Article 60 (Contributions in Kind) The government may contribute general property in kind in
cases falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where the government newly establishes a government invested corporation;
2. Where it is necessary to secure funds to facilitate the business with a proper purpose of
a government-invested corporation;
3. Where it is needed for reorganization of the operating system and the management
structure of a government-invested corporation.
 
Article 61 (Procedures for Contributions in Kind) (1) When a government-invested
corporation intends to receive a contribution in kind under Article 60, it shall file an

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            42                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
application with the head of the administrative agency in control of the business of the
government-invested corporation pursuant to the relevant statutes (hereinafter referred to
as "head of the competent authority") with the following documents attached thereto:
<Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Necessity for the contribution in kind;
2. Size and specifications of the property to be invested;
3. Price assessment for the property to be invested;
4. Financial statements and current status of management;
5. Business plans.
(2) If the head of the competent authority receives an application to provide a contribution
in kind under paragraph (1), he/she shall review the propriety of such contribution in kind
and then request the office of general administration to make the contribution in kind
attaching the documents in each subparagraph of paragraph (1) as well as a written
opinion on the contribution in kind. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) When it is requested to make a contribution in kind under paragraph (2), the office of
general administration shall formulate a plan for contribution in kind and obtain approval
therefor from the President after deliberation of the State Council.
 
Article 62 (Calculation of Value of Contribution) In cases of contribution in kind under the
provisions of Article 60, the value of the contribution for the general property shall be
computed pursuant to Article 44: Provided, That if the calculated value of equity securities
is less than their par value, the value of contribution shall be the par value of such equity
securities.
 
Article 63 (Correction of Property Invested, etc.) When any change has occurred to the
property subject to the contribution in kind due to its destruction or damage during the
period from the base date for assessment to the contribution date, the office of general
administration may correct the property invested or the value of contribution. In such
cases, the head of the competent authority shall notify the office of general administration
of such change in the property subject to the contribution in kind without delay.
 
Article 64 (Acquisition Value of Equity Securities following Contribution in Kind) The
acquisition value of the equity securities to be acquired by the government through
contribution in kind shall not exceed the asset value determined by Ordinance of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            43                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Ministry of Strategy and Finance: Provided, That such asset value may be substituted with
the par value in any case prescribed by Presidential Decree, in which the asset value of the
equity securities is less than their par value.
 
Article 65 (Exclusion from Application of Commercial Act) The provisions of Articles 295 (2),
299 (1), 299-2, and 422 of the Commercial Act shall not apply where a government-
invested corporation receives contribution in kind pursuant to the provisions of Article 60.
 
            SECTION 8 Dividend Paid to Government
 
Article 65-2 (Scope of Application of Company Paying Dividends to Government and Invested
Property) This section shall apply to the dividend paid to the Government (hereinafter
referred to as "dividend paid to the Government" in this section) by the companies
prescribed by Presidential Decree (excluding the companies that the Government has the
share paid in kind pursuant to the Inheritance Tax and Gift Tax Act; hereinafter referred to
as "company paying dividends to the Government" in this section) from among the
corporations in which the State has share in the form of general accounts, special accounts
and of funds as the invested property being administered as State-owned property.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 2011]
 
Article 65-3 (Principles concerning Determination of Dividend to Government) With respect
to the companies paying dividends to the Government, which have profits available for
dividend calculated pursuant to the Commercial Act or relevant statutes, the office of
general administration and the head of a central government agency Service referred to to
Article 8 shall ensure appropriateness of dividend paid to the Government, taking into
account the following: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
1. The size of profits subject to dividend payment;
2. Reasonableness of the budget amount for the Government's investment revenue, and
the financial condition of the Government;
3. Dividend ratio and dividend payout ratio of each company paying dividends to the
Government;
4. Dividend ratio and dividend payout ratio of the private sector's same or similar business
field;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            44                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
5. Management conditions of the company paying dividends to the Government, such as
the size of its capital stock, the size of internal funds, debt ratio, net worth ratio under
the standards set by the Bank for International Settlements, historical dividend payments,
appropriateness of financial resources required for the investment, etc.;
6. Other criteria for determining dividends as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 2011]
 
Article 65-4 (Appropriation, etc., of Budget Bill of Government's Dividend Revenue) (1)
Companies paying dividends to the Government shall submit data that can estimate the
Government's dividend revenue to the office of general administration or to the head of a
central government agency, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) The office of general administration or the head of a central government agency shall
estimate the following year's Government's dividend revenue based on the data submitted
in accordance with paragraph (1), and shall include the estimate in the budget of revenues
of the budget bill concerned or in the revenue plan of the management plan for the State
Property Administration Fund.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 2011]
 
Article 65-5 (Determination of dividend paid to the Government) (1) Companies paying
dividends to the Government shall submit such data relevant to determining dividend paid
to the Government to the office of general administration and to the head of a central
government agency, respectively, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) When determining the dividend to be paid to the Government, companies paying
dividends  to  the  Government  shall  consult  in  advance  with  the  office  of  general
administration  and  the  head  of  a  central  government  agency,  respectively,  before
undergoing procedures, such as board of directors/shareholders meetings, which are
relevant to determining the dividend paid to the Government. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 2011]
 
Article 65-6 (Report to National Assembly, etc.) When the dividend payment by companies
paying dividends to the Government is completed, the office of general administration and
the head of a central government agency shall report details thereof to the competent
Standing Committee of the National Assembly and shall publicly announce such details.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            45                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER IV-2 SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING ADMINISTRATION OR DISPOSAL OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
 
Article 65-7 (Permission, etc., for Use of Intellectual Property) (1) A person who has obtained
permission for use or loan (hereinafter referred to as "permission for use, etc.") of
intellectual property may allow any third person to use, or benefit from, such intellectual
property after obtaining approval therefor from the head of the relevant central
government agency, etc., notwithstanding the main sentence of Article 30 (2) and Article
47 (1).
(2) A person who has obtained permission for the use, etc., of copyright, etc., may
transform, change, or adapt the relevant work upon obtaining approval therefor from the
head of the central government agency, etc., that administers the relevant intellectual
property.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 65-8 (Method of Granting Permission for Use, etc., of Intellectual Property) (1) Where
the head of a central government agency, etc., intends to grant permission for the use,
etc., of intellectual property, he/she shall do so by a private contract, notwithstanding the
main sentence of Article 31 (1) and Article 47 (1) and may grant permission to several
persons at a time or on several occasions. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) No one who obtains permission for use, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) shall interfere
with the utilization of the relevant intellectual property by any third person.
(3) The head of a central government agency, etc., may revoke permission for use, etc.,
granted to a person who interferes with the utilization of the relevant intellectual property
by any third person, in violation of paragraph (2).
(4) Where no person, other than the relevant applicant, intends to obtain permission for
use, etc., during the permitted period of use, etc., provided for in Article 65-11 (1)
notwithstanding paragraph (1), or where deemed particularly necessary for the efficient
administration of intellectual property, the head of a central government agency, etc., may
grant permission for use, etc., only to a specific person. In such cases, the method of
granting permission for use, etc., shall be as stipulated in the main sentence of Article 31

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            46                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(1), Article 31 (2) or Article 47 (1).
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 65-9 (Usage Fees, etc., of Intellectual Property) (1) When permission for the use, etc.,
of intellectual property is granted, usage fees or rent shall be collected in an amount
prescribed by Presidential Decree by taking into account, among other things, revenue
from the relevant intellectual property, notwithstanding Articles 32 (1) and 47 (1).
(2) Articles 33 and 47 (1) shall not apply where a person (a heir or other general successor
shall be deemed the same person as his/her predecessor) continuously uses, or benefits
from, the same intellectual property.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 65-10 (Exemption from or Reduction of Usage Fees or Rent of Intellectual Property)
Except as provided for in Articles 34 (1) and 47 (1), the head of a central government
agency, etc., may exempt or reduce the relevant usage fees or rent in any of the following
cases, as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Jun. 22, 2015; Dec. 26, 2017>
1. For the increase of income of farmers defined in subparagraph 2 of Article 3 of the
Framework Act on Agriculture, Rural Community and Food Industry, and fishermen
defined in subparagraph 3 of Article 3 of the Framework Act on Fisheries and Fishing
Villages Development, the expansion of exports by small and medium businesses defined
in Article 2 of the Framework Act on Small and Medium Enterprises, support for business
starters and business re-starters defined in subparagraphs 2 and 2-2 of Article 2 of the
Support for Small and Medium Enterprises Establishment Act, facilitation of establishment
of venture businesses defined in Article 2 (1) of the Act on Special Measures for the
Promotion of Venture Businesses, and other cases deemed necessary by the head of a
central government agency, etc., to promote national policies equivalent thereto:
Exemption;
2. Other cases deemed necessary by the head of a central government agency, etc., to
utilize intellectual property for public purposes: Reduction.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 65-11 (Permitted Period of Use, etc., of Intellectual Property) (1) Notwithstanding
Article 35 or 46, the permitted period of the use or loan of intellectual property shall be
prescribed by Presidential Decree to the extent of five years.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            47                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) With respect to the intellectual property (excluding intellectual property prescribed by
Presidential Decree under the main sentence of Article 35 (2) and Article 46 (2)), the period
for permission of use or loan under paragraph (1) for which expires, the permission for use,
etc., previously granted may be renewed for a period not exceeding the permitted period
of use or loan prescribed under paragraph (1): Provided, That permission for use, etc.,
granted under Article 65-8 (4) may be renewed only on one occasion.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
Article 65-12 (Vesting, etc., of Copyright) (1) When the head of a central government agency,
etc., enters into a contract for production of a work with a person, other than the State,
he/she shall stipulate the vesting of copyright to the work in the contract.
(2) Where the head of a central government agency, etc., enters into a contract for
collaborative creation with a person, other than the State, the copyright to the end product
shall be jointly owned, notwithstanding the main sentence of Article 11 (1), and the shares
therein shall be equally divided unless otherwise stipulated: Provided, That the principal
agent  with  whom  the  copyright  is  vested,  the  share  ratio,  etc.,  may  be  otherwise
determined taking into consideration the level of contribution to the end product and the
characteristics of the subject matter of the contract, such as national security, national
defense and diplomatic relations.
(3) When the head of a central government agency, etc., enters into a contract under
paragraphs (1) and (2), he/she shall not enter into a contract to the effect that the
copyright in the end product is fully vested to a person, other than the State.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 2012]
 
            CHAPTER V ADMINISTRATIVE REGISTRY AND REPORTING
 
Article 66 (Administrative Registry and Inspections) (1) The head of a central government
agency, etc., shall keep an administrative registry, the certificates of registered matters, and
drawings of State property under its jurisdiction, according to the classifications and types
provided for in Article 6. In such cases, the administrative registry of State property may be
prepared in the form of electronic data. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Apr. 12, 2011; Dec.
18, 2012>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            48                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) The head of a central government agency, etc., shall annually inspect the actual status
of State property under its jurisdiction and revise the administrative registry referred to in
paragraph (1) accordingly. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(3) Matters necessary for preparing the administrative registry referred to in paragraph (1)
and  for  conducting  inspections  pursuant  to  paragraph  (2)  shall  be  prescribed  by
Presidential  Decree.
(4) The office of general administration shall keep a general registry of State property
under the jurisdiction of each central government agency. In such cases, electronic data
may be used instead of the general registry. <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(5) The office of general administration, the head of a central government agency, or any
officials or persons delegated or entrusted with the administrative duties pursuant to
Articles 28, 29, and 42 (1) and (3) may, free of charge, request inspection or reproduction
of any necessary documents, or issuance of certified copies or abstracts thereof or
certificates of registered matters from the heads of the registry offices or other relevant
administrative agencies, if necessary for the administration or disposal of State property.
<Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Apr. 12, 2011>
 
Article 67 (Access to Land, etc., Owned by Third Parties) (1) The head of a central
government agency, etc., or employees of the person to whom general affairs has been
delegated/entrusted pursuant to Article 25 may perform the delegated/entrusted affairs, or
may be permitted to access land, etc., owned by third parties if necessary for the
inspection under Article 66 (2). <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) Any person who intends to have access to land, etc., owned by a third party under
paragraph (1) shall make it known to the owner, occupant, or manager of such land, etc.,
(hereafter in this Article referred to as "interested persons") in advance: Provided, That this
shall not apply where the interested persons are unknown. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) Interested persons shall be prohibited from refusing or obstructing access referred to in
paragraph (1) without justifiable grounds.
(4) The person who intends to get access to land, etc., owned by a third party under
paragraph (1) shall carry with him/her a certificate indicating his/her authority and present
it to the interested persons. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            49                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 68 (Price Assessment, etc.) Any accounting treatment of State property, including
assessment of the price of State property, shall be in conformity with the national
accounting standards under Article 11 of the National Accounting Act.
 
Article 69 (Reports on Administration of State Property) (1) The head of a central government
agency shall prepare a report on the administration of State property under its control and
submit it to the office of general administration by not later than the end of February of
the following year. In such cases, matters to be included in the report on the
administration of State property shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on
Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) The office of general administration shall combine the reports on the administration of
State property mentioned in paragraph (1) and prepare a comprehensive report on the
administration of State property.
(3) The office of general administration shall submit the comprehensive report on the
administration of State property mentioned in paragraph (2) to the Board of Audit and
Inspection by not later than April 10 of the following year for inspection.
(4) The office of general administration shall submit the comprehensive report on the
administration of State property inspected by the Board of Audit and Inspection pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph (3) and the audit report made by the Board of Audit and
Inspection to the National Assembly by not later than May 31 of the following year.
 
Article 70 (Reports on Destruction, etc.) If any State property under its control is destructed
or removed, the head of a central government agency, etc. shall promptly report such fact
to the office of general administration and the Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended
on Mar. 30, 2011>
 
Article 71 (Exclusion from Application) The provisions of Articles 68 through 70 shall not
apply to the property mentioned in Article 5 (1) 2, which is managed by the Minister of
Defense, and other property determined by the head of a central government agency
through consultations with the office of general administration. <Amended on Mar. 30,
2011>
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            50                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
            CHAPTER VI SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
 
Article 72 (Collection of Indemnities) (1) The head of a central government agency, etc., shall
collect, from a person occupying any State property without permission, an indemnity
equivalent to 120 percent of the usage fees or rent of such State property, as prescribed
by Presidential Decree: Provided, That no indemnity shall be collected in any of the
following cases: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011; Apr. 12, 2011; Dec. 18, 2012; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. If property purchased by a person (including his/her successor or other general
successor), who has paid a reasonable price for the purchase in reliance on the registered
titleholder named in the certificate of registered matters or in other public record, is later
proved to be State property and thus vested to the State;
2. If the State or a local government permits a person to occupy, use, or benefit from State
property for a given period due to an inevitable reason, such as countermeasures against
a natural disaster.
(2) The payment of an indemnity under paragraph (1) may be deferred, or made in
installments, for up to five years, as prescribed by Presidential Decree, in consideration of
the circumstances under which the State property is occupied without permission, its use,
the financial conditions of the occupant, etc. <Amended on May 27, 2009>
(3) Adjustment of usage fees of and rent of State property under Articles 33 and 47 shall
not apply to an indemnity collected under paragraph (1).
 
Article 73 (Collection of Overdue Charges, etc.) (1) When a person fails to pay, with regard to
any State property, the usage fees, additional dues imposed for the negligence of
administration, rent, proceeds from sale, exchange price, or indemnities (excluding any
interest accrued thereon where the payment of such indemnities is deferred or made in
installments) by their respective due dates, the head of a central government agency, etc.,
may collect overdue charges, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, the
period for which the overdue charges are imposed shall not exceed 60 months from the
due date. <Amended on May 27, 2009; Mar. 30, 2011>
(2) When a person fails to pay, with regard to any State property, the usage fees,
additional dues imposed for the negligence of administration, rent, indemnities, or overdue
charges under the provisions of paragraph (1) by their respective due dates, the head of a
central government agency, etc., may collect them by applying mutatis mutandis the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            51                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
provisions  of  Article  23  of  the  National  Tax  Collection  Act  and  the  provisions  for
disposition on arrears of the same Act according to the methods falling under any of the
following subparagraphs: <Amended on Mar. 30, 2011>
1. The head of a central government agency (in cases of general property, including
persons delegated with duties on administration/disposal under the provisions of Article
42 (1); hereinafter in this subparagraph, the same shall apply) may collect them directly,
or delegate duties for such collection to the head of the competent tax office or the
head of the competent local government (hereinafter referred to as "head of tax office,
etc."). In such cases, the head of tax office, etc., which executes the affairs shall be placed
under the supervision of the head of a central government agency which has delegated
such affairs;
2. A person who has been entrusted with duties for the administration/disposal under the
provisions of Article 42 (1) may have the head of the competent tax office, etc., collect
them on his/her behalf.
 
Article 73-2 (Consultation of Urban Management Plan, etc.) (1) Where the head of a central
government agency or the head of local government, with respect to State-owned
property, determines or alters the urban management plan pursuant to the National Land
Planning and Utilization Act, or make a restriction on the use and preservation pursuant to
other Acts, he/she shall consult in advance with the office of general administration or the
head of the relevant central government agency that has control over the State-owned
property.
(2) Where the head of a central government agency, etc. (including persons to whom
affairs regarding management and disposal of State property are delegated or entrusted
under other statutes) submits its opinion to a person who intends to authorize or permit
development activities involving matters concerning reversion of public facilities that are
State property under Article 65 (3) of the National Land Planning and Utilization Act or
other Acts, he/she shall consult with the office of general administration in advance, as
prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 26, 2017>
(3) Where the office of general administration or the head of a central government agency,
etc., deems necessary to efficiently administer State-owned property and enhance its utility,
he/she may request the person authorized to prepare an urban management plan under
the  National  Land  Planning  and  Utilization  Act  for  change  of  the  relevant  urban

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            52                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
management plan. <Amended on Dec. 26, 2017>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 73-3 (Extinctive Prescription) (1) The rights of the State for the purpose of a payment
of money pursuant to this Act shall be extinguished by the completion of prescription,
unless it is exercised for five years.
(2) The extinctive prescription of the rights under Article 73 (2) shall be suspended for any
of the following reasons:
1. Notice of payment;
2. Urging;
3. Request for delivery;
4. Seizure.
(3) The extinctive prescription suspended pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be in progress
newly from the time when any of the following periods passed:
1. Period of payment pursuant to the notice of payment or the urging;
2. Period of request for delivery;
3. Period up to the cancellation of seizure.
(4) The extinctive prescription under paragraph (1) shall not be in progress in any of the
following periods:
1. Period of payment in installments and period of deferment of collection pursuant to this
Act;
2. Period of postponement of disposition on default under the National Tax Collection Act;
3. Period of the ongoing litigation by raising the revocation litigation on a fraudulent act
under Article 30 of the National Tax Collection Act or the subrogated litigation by a
creditor under Article 404 of the Civil Act (cases where the litigation has been rejected,
dismissed, or revoked are null and void).
(5) Except for no specific legal provisions otherwise exist with respect to the extinctive
prescription on the rights of the State for the purpose of a payment of money pursuant to
this Act, the Civil Act and the National Finance Act shall apply.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2016]
 
Article 74 (Removal of Illegal Facilities) When any person occupies State property or
constructs facilities therein without justifiable grounds, the head of a central government

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            53                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
agency, etc. may remove such facilities or take other necessary measures by applying
mutatis mutandis the Administrative Vicarious Execution Act. <Amended on Mar. 2, 2016>
 
Article 75 (Additional Dues for Erroneous Payment) When returning usage fees, rent,
proceeds from sale, or indemnities for State property which have been erroneously paid,
the State shall repay such fees, etc., and interest accrued thereon as provided by
Presidential Decree, for the period from the day following the date on which such
erroneous payment is made until the date such fees, etc., are returned.
 
Article 76 (Disclosure of Information) (1) The office of general administration shall disclose
information retained and managed by the office through the information disclosure system
using information and communication networks for the efficient administration and
disposal of State property.
(2)  Necessary  matters  concerning  the  scope  of  information  to  be  disclosed  under
paragraph (1) and procedures for the disclosure shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 77 (Report on Concealed Property, etc.) (1) A person who detects concealed State
property or ownerless real estate and reports it to the government may be rewarded, as
prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) If a local government detects concealed State property or ownerless real estate and
reports it to the government, such property may be transferred to the reporting local
government or the local government may be rewarded, as prescribed by Presidential
Decree, within the half of the value of such property.
 
Article 78 (Special Cases concerning Voluntary Restitution of Concealed Property, etc.) If any
concealed State property is sold to a person who has acquired it in good faith and
thereafter returned such property to the State voluntarily due to a cause falling under any
of the following subparagraphs, such person may, notwithstanding the provisions of Article
50, be permitted to purchase the property by installment payments over 12 years or less
without interest thereon, or by paying a discounted purchase price in a lump sum after
deducting an amount of not more than 80 percent of the purchase price from the original
purchase price, as specified by Presidential Decree and differentiated by the reason of
his/her return:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            54                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Voluntary restitution;
2. Settlement in the litigation;
3. Other causes prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 79 (Liability for Compensation) (1) If any person entrusted with administrative duties
for State property pursuant to Article 28 breaches his/her duty and causes damage to the
property on purpose or by gross negligence, he/she shall be liable to compensate such
damage.
(2) Articles 4 (3) and (4), 6 through 8 of the Act on Liability of Accounting Personnel shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the liability to compensate under paragraph (1).
 
Article 79-2 (Legal Fiction as Public Official in Application of Penalty Provisions) The members
who are not public official, among the members of the Committee, the advisory group for
development through participation of private sector pursuant to Article 59-3 (3) and of the
evaluation group for development through participation of private sector pursuant to
paragraph (7) of the same Article, shall be deemed to be a public official in applying
Articles 129 through 132 of the Criminal Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 30, 2011]
 
Article 80 (Special Cases concerning Liquidation Procedures) Notwithstanding the provisions
of the Commercial Act concerning the power and the convocation or resolution methods,
etc., of a general meeting of stockholders or employees, liquidation of a corporation, not
less than a half of the equity shares of which is held by the State and which is prescribed
by Presidential Decree shall be determined in accordance with the Presidential Decree.
 
Article 81 (Liquidation Procedures for Corporation whose Headquarters or Principal Offices
are Located in North of Military Demarcation Line) (1) With respect to the liquidation of
corporations whose headquarters or principal offices are located in north above the
Military Demarcation Line from among corporations referred to in Article 80, the provisions
of the Commercial Act and Article 80 of this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis: Provided,
That the provisions of the Commercial Act concerning the following matters shall not apply
mutatis mutandis:
1. Registration of dissolution of a corporation;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            55                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Report and registration of a liquidator;
3. Presentation of a list of property and a balance sheet pursuant to Article 533 of the
Commercial Act;
4. Registration upon completion of liquidation.
(2) Where the ownership of the real estate owned by a corporation under liquidation
procedures pursuant to paragraph (1) is likely to be transferred to a person who occupies
such real estate without permission under Article 245 of the Civil Act, the office of general
administration may vest such real estate in the State even before the completion of the
liquidation procedures. In such cases, no right of shareholders and other equity holders of
the corporation shall be affected in the course of distributing any remaining property after
the completion of liquidation.
(3) Where a corporation is liquidated pursuant to paragraph (1), the necessary matters shall
be publicly notified pursuant to Presidential Decree.
(4) Where the State entrusts registration for the transfer of ownership on the real estate of
the relevant corporation, according to the provisions of paragraph (2) or as a result of the
distribution of the remaining property after the completion of liquidation procedures, the
registration  procedures  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  Presidential  Decree,
notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  the  Registration  of  Real  Estate  Act.
 
            CHAPTER VII PENTALTY PROVISIONS
 
Article 82 (Penalty Provisions) A person who uses or benefits from administrative property, in
violation of Article 7 (1), shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than
two years or by a fine not exceeding ten million won.
 
Article 82 (Penalty Provisions) A person who uses or benefits from administrative property, in
violation of Article 7 (1), shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than
two years or by a fine not exceeding 20 million won.
[Enforcement Date: Oct. 1, 2020] Article 82

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
