 
 
JTC Environmental Site 
Assessment (ESA) Requirements 
and Technical Guideline 
 
(2024 EDITION) 
(This version is edited on 1st Feb 2024) 
 
 
SUMMARY OF AMENDMENTS  
 
2024 Edition Version 1 
 
Rename of document 
Renamed to JTC Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) 
Requirements and Technical Guideline 
Overall update of EBS 
to ESA 
All terms of reference on Environmental Baseline Study 
changed to Environmental Site Assessment  
Section 1.1 
Added ESA Requirements as part of JTC ESA 
Requirements and Technical Guideline 
Section 7.1 
Updated requirement for entry and exit ESA 
APPENDIX A.1. 
Updated contact for assistance on ESA 
Updated information for declaration form 
 
 
Version 6 
 
Section 2.3 
Revised the NEA’s website on the list of third party 
specialist consultants  
Section 7.2 
Added requirement on remediation proposal 
 
 
Version 5 
 
Section 2.3 
Revised the NEA’s website on the list of third party 
specialist consultants  
Section 5.2.2 
Updated to adopt the EBS data information excel 
template (Dutch Standard 2013) 
Section 5.2.3 
Added requirement on EBS BH location 
Section 7.1 
Added requirement for entry and exit EBS 
Section 7.2 
Added requirement on establishment of extent of 
contamination 
Section 7.3 
Revised requirement on certification of remediated sites 
APPENDIX A.1. 
Updated the link for EBS data information excel 
template (Dutch Standard 2013) 
 
 
Version 4 
 
Section 2.3 
Revised the NEA’s website on the list of third party 
specialist consultants  
APPENDIX A.1. 
Revised contact list 
Added in definition for change of use 
Version 3 
 
Section 6.4.3 
Added in no use of glue requirement for groundwater 
monitoring well installations 
Section 7.2 
Added in remediation procedure 
Version 2 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Section 2.3 
Revised the NEA’s website on the list of third party 
specialist consultants  
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Table of Contents 
1.0 
 INTRODUCTION 
5 
1.1 
ENVIRONMENTAL SITE ASSESSMENT (ESA) REQUIREMENTS 
5 
2.0  ESA TECHNICAL GUIDELINE AND PROCEDURE 
7 
2.1 
The six-step ESA procedure 
7 
2.2 
Acquisition of data or information 
8 
2.3 
Engagement of a qualified consultant 
8 
3.1 
Investigation Documents 
8 
4.0 
 STEP 2 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION 
10 
4.1 
Objectives 
10 
4.2 
Scope of Work 
10 
5.0 
STEP 3 DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTIGATION STRATEGY 
11 
5.1 
Field Investigation Objectives 
11 
5.2 
Sampling Strategies 
11 
5.3 
Sampling of Other Media 
13 
5.4 
Further investigation 
13 
5.5 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control 
13 
6.0 
STEP 4 FIELD INVESTIGATION 
14 
6.1 
Permitting/H&S Consideration 
14 
6.2 
Detection and Protection of Utility Infrastructure 
14 
6.3 
Techniques and Soil Sampling Methods 
15 
6.4 
Monitoring Well Installation 
17 
6.5 
Well Decommissioning 
20 
6.6 
Groundwater Sampling Methods 
21 
6.7 
Equipment Decontamination 
21 
6.8 
Elevation and Coordinates Survey 
21 
6.9 
Sample Handling and Documentation 
21 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
6.10 Methods of Analysis 
21 
6.11 Waste Management 
22 
7.0 
STEP 5 SELECTION OF SOIL AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY 
STANDARDS OR SCREENING LEVEL 
22 
7.1 
Standard of Assessment 
22 
7.2 
Remediation 
23 
7.3 
Certification of Remediated Sites 
24 
8.0 
STEP 5 REPORTING 
24 
8.1 
General Structure 
24 
9.0 
 CONCLUSIONS 
25 
APPENDIX A.1. 
26 
APPENDIX A.2. TYPES OF INDUSTRIES AND THEIR POSSIBLE COCS 
30 
APPENDIX A.3. LABORATORY METHODS 
31 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
1.0  
Introduction 
 
Previously known as JTC EBS (Environmental Baseline Study), JTC Environmental 
Site Assessment (ESA) involves an intrusive soil and groundwater investigation 
conducted to establish the level of potential contaminants in soils and groundwater 
beneath a site and to determine the suitability of the site’s intended usage. If 
contamination is observed at the end of occupancy, remediation/decontamination will 
be required. 
 
With increasing scarcity of land and industrial land in Singapore, there is a need for 
JTC as a landowner/developer to safeguard the land from contamination to allow the 
land to be suitable for the next user. In the absence of legislation for soil and 
groundwater contamination, JTC imposes ESA requirements through contractual 
agreement as part of land transaction on land occupiers to ensure that the land is not 
being contaminated throughout the tenure.  
 
1.1 
Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) Requirements 
 
1. Land occupier1 is required to conduct ESA (“Entry ESA”) at the point of 
imposition of ESA requirements to determine the presence/levels of minerals, 
hydrocarbons and chemicals on and beneath the site in accordance with the 
requirements in the sections below.  
 
2. It is land occupier’s responsibility to appoint a NEA-listed ESA consultant to 
conduct Entry ESA and submit the ESA report within 6 months from the date 
of commencement/ acceptance/ consent (whichever applicable for the 
transaction) for JTC’s acceptance. For clarity, if no Entry ESA was accepted by 
JTC, land occupier will be required to decontaminate the site to the levels in 
the DIV at the point of exit.  
 
3. The Entry ESA will be used to establish the existing site condition.  
 
4. In the event the contamination level in the Entry ESA exceeds Dutch 
Intervention Values (DIV), the ESA report needs to include a risk assessment 
and comply with the recommendations set out in the assessment to ensure that 
the site is suitable for its intended usage. Further technical details can be found 
in Section 7.1 of this document.  
 
5. If the results of the Entry ESA indicate that the contamination level exceeds 
DIV, and if the Entry ESA shows that the land occupier is responsible for the 
contamination or it is assessed that the land occupier is the polluter, land 
occupier will be required to remediate/ decontaminate the site to DIV and 
submit an updated ESA after completion of the decontamination. 
 
6. At the point of exit (i.e. at the end of lease / tenancy/ TOL/ wayleave term 
whichever is applicable), land occupier will be required to carry out another 
ESA (“Exit ESA”) to determine if remediation/ decontamination is required. 
Land occupier will also need to appoint NEA-listed ESA consultant to conduct 
Exit ESA. 
 
7. If the result of the Exit ESA indicates that the level of minerals, hydrocarbons 
and chemicals present at the time of the Exit ESA exceeds that of applicable 
ESA (i.e. Entry ESA or Dutch Intervention Values (DIV) whichever is less 
stringent), land occupier will need to remediate and decontaminate to the levels 
 
1 Land occupier refers to JTC Customers who are contracted to JTC as lessees, tenants or 
licensees.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
in the applicable ESA, and to the Authorities and JTC’s satisfaction. If the 
contamination in Exit ESA is assessed to be caused by others, evidence shall 
be provided to JTC for evaluation and acceptance on case-by-case basis. 
 
8. In case of assignment/ transfer of ownership,  
(i) 
For sites with existing ESA baseline established, the seller is required 
to conduct Exit ESA prior to exit of site. If the result of the Exit ESA 
indicates that the level of minerals, hydrocarbons and chemicals 
present at the time of the Exit ESA exceeds that of applicable ESA (i.e. 
Entry ESA or Dutch Intervention Values (DIV) whichever is less 
stringent), seller will need to remediate and decontaminate to the levels 
in the applicable ESA, and to the Authorities and JTC’s satisfaction. The 
buyer can choose to undertake the same baseline condition and take 
over the ESA responsibilities (i.e. to conduct Exit ESA and 
decontaminate the site at the point of exit if results of Exit ESA exceeds 
that of applicable ESA). 
 
(ii) 
For sites without existing ESA baseline established, the seller is 
required to conduct ESA prior to exit of site to establish the baseline. If 
the results of the ESA indicate that the contamination level exceeds DIV 
and, the ESA report shows that the seller is responsible for the 
contamination or it is assessed that the seller is the polluter, the seller 
will be required to decontaminate the site to DIV. The buyer can choose 
to undertake the requirement to conduct ESA and establish the 
baseline. For clarity, para 1 to 8 above will be applied to the buyer.  
 
9. It is the land occupier’s responsibility to ensure that the Exit ESA is dated no 
earlier than 4 months before the return of site to JTC.  
 
10. JTC reserves the right to request for lessee to conduct further study if the ESA 
reports are inconclusive or non-satisfactory. 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
2.0  
ESA Technical Guideline and Procedure 
 
The ESA efforts shall determine the environmental setting and hydro-geological 
condition of the site at the time of site assessment.  Basically, the study shall provide 
an overall picture of the existing soil and groundwater conditions in the context of 
subsurface contamination.   Each study is to be planned as part of the continual 
monitoring program through which changes in conditions at the site can be 
documented, assessed, and updated. 
 
This technical guideline is developed to provide the responsible parties necessary 
guidance for conducting ESA for assessing contamination of a site. This Guideline 
shall be read in conjunction with Section 7, Control of land pollution and remediation 
of contaminated sites, of Code of Practice on Pollution Control. 
 
2.1 
The six-step ESA procedure 
 
An environmental site assessment may include the following six steps: 
 
Step 1 Development of Work Plan  
 
• 
Investigation Documents (Work Plan, Health, Safety and Environment Plan) 
 
Step 2 Preliminary investigation  
 
• 
Objectives 
• 
Scope of work (Desktop Investigation, site reconnaissance, development of 
Conceptual Site Model (CSM)) 
 
Step 3 Development of investigation strategy  
 
• 
Field Investigation Objectives  
• 
Sampling Strategies (Determining Sampling Media, Determining Analytes, 
Sampling Locations and Numbers) 
• 
Sampling of Other Media  
• 
Further investigation  
• 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control  
 
Step 4 Field investigation  
 
• 
Permitting/H&S Consideration 
• 
Detection and Protection of Utility Infrastructure  
• 
Techniques and Soil Sampling Methods (Sampling Depths and Intervals, 
Sample Collection, Soil Screening, Sample Logging, Borehole Reinstatement) 
• 
Monitoring Well Installation (Well Construction Materials, Installation Details, 
Well Completion, Well Development) 
• 
Well Decommissioning (Grouting from Bottom to Top) 
• 
Groundwater Sampling Methods  
• 
Equipment Decontamination 
• 
Elevation and Coordinates Survey  
• 
Sample Handling and Documentation  
• 
Methods of Analysis  
• 
Waste Management (Disposal of Wastes, Spill Control and Management) 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Step 5 Selection of soil and groundwater quality standards or screening level  
 
• 
Standards of Assessment    
• 
Remediation 
• 
Certification of Remediated Site 
 
Step 6 Reporting 
 
• 
Report submission 
• 
Self-Declaration checklist (in Appendix A.1.) 
 
2.2 
Acquisition of data or information 
 
The data or information needed to conduct an ESA can be acquired from the following 
sources, but not limited to: 
 
• 
Clients: building plans, permits and licences, manufacturing processes, 
historical use etc. 
• 
SLA: land title records 
• 
MINDEF: aerial photographs, topography maps, and road maps 
• 
Other government departments and statutory boards, e.g. PCD of NEA. 
 
ESA data or information acquisition is generally an iterative process.  Adequacy of data 
or information should be constantly reviewed and evaluated.  When data or information 
is lacking or missing, additional data or information acquisition shall be considered.  
 
2.3 
Engagement of a qualified consultant 
 
An ESA shall be carried out by the responsible parties who may appoint a qualified 
consultant to undertake the ESA on their behalf.  The responsible parties should check 
that their consultants are qualified and have proven capability and experience in the 
site assessment work (including ESA) or other relevant works.  The qualified 
consultants shall be responsible for providing technical support and supervision 
throughout the progress of the work. The responsible parties or their consultants shall 
also ensure that only accredited laboratory is to be engaged for the analyses.  A list of 
third-party specialist consultants is provided by the NEA and can be found at 
https://www.nea.gov.sg/our-services/development-control 
(site 
assessment 
and 
site 
remediation). 
 
3.0 
Step 1 Development of Work Plan 
 
3.1 
Investigation Documents 
 
For documentation purposes, the ESA Consultant shall prepare (i) a Work Plan, and 
(ii) a Health, Safety and Environment Plan (H&S Plan). Findings from the preliminary 
investigation will feed into the H&S plans and refine the Work Plan. These plans are 
live documents and should be updated after the findings of the preliminary 
investigation.  
 
 
3.1.1 Work Plan 
 
The Work Plan is a document that details how the ESA Consultant proposes to carry 
out the ESA. The ESA Consultant shall prepare an initial Work Plan that includes but 
not be limited to the following:  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
a.   Overall ESA objectives; 
b. Specific field investigation objectives (after preliminary investigation); 
c. Background information and site history; 
d. Breakdown of project-related tasks; 
e. Equipment to be used; 
f. 
ESA team organization including the ESA Consultant’s key personnel’s roles 
and responsibilities, selected laboratory, environmental drilling contractors and 
other personnel/contractors involved in the ESA; 
g. Existing/previous layout plan and description on land use; and 
h. Schedule or timeline for completion. 
 
The Work Plan will also include quality control and quality assurance procedures such 
as:  
a.   Sampling strategy; 
b. The type and quantity of data needed; 
c. How and where the data will be obtained; 
d. How the acquired data will be analysed; 
e. Quality assurance and quality control activities to assess the quality 
performance criteria; and 
f. 
A declaration that the consultant had adopted the standard procedures in 
accordance to this set of guidelines. 
 
The Work Plan shall be attached as an Appendix to the ESA report(s). 
 
3.1.2 Health, Safety and Environment Plan 
 
A Health, Safety and Environment Plan (H&S Plan) is a document that details how the 
ESA Consultant will identify and manage site-specific health, safety and environment 
hazards associated with the proposed ESA. The H&S Plan shall include but not be 
limited to the following: 
 
a.   Risk Assessment 
A site-specific health and safety risk assessment should detail all the job tasks 
to be carried out during the ESA as well as the associated hazards and the 
additional controls that must be in place to eliminate or minimise the hazards. 
 
b.   Health and Safety Measures 
Details of safe work practices and control measures used to reduce or eliminate 
general potential hazards should be provided in this section. These safe 
practices and controls should cover general practices and housekeeping, 
hazard communication, dangerous chemicals, manual lifting, fire prevention, 
heights and falls, electrical hazards, biological hazards, etc.  
 
c.  Pollution Control Measures 
Preventive measures to address noise, odour, dust, air and water pollution 
should be provided in this section to ensure field work to be conducted in 
compliance with the standard of the relevant authorities. 
 
d. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
The list of general hazards and the appropriate PPE required should be 
provided in this section. Standard PPE should be worn by all personnel in the 
field at all times, in compliance with the Workplace Safety and Health Act (Cap. 
354A) or other relevant Ministry of Manpower (MOM) requirements. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
e. Emergency Response Plan 
The emergency response plan should identify the location of on-site first aid 
and telecommunication available, provide a list of emergency telephone 
numbers, indicate the evacuation routes, assembly areas and route to hospital, 
etc. 
 
4.0  
Step 2 Preliminary Investigation 
 
The Preliminary Investigation (PI) forms the initial phase of all investigations. It involves 
a desktop investigation and site reconnaissance. This is a largely non-intrusive survey 
that provides data from which a preliminary Conceptual Site Model (CSM) can be 
developed. 
 
4.1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of conducting a PI are: 
 
a. To develop a preliminary CSM for the site; 
b. To identify potential sources of contamination and recognised environmental 
conditions(RECs) in connection with the historical and current site activities; 
c. To identify the potential on-site and off-site human and environmental 
receptors; 
d. To identify potential migration pathways, transport mechanisms and exposure 
pathways of the soil and groundwater contamination; 
e. To identify the potential impacts of contamination to on-site and off-site 
receptors; 
f. 
To gather information useful for developing the sampling program for the ESA; 
and 
g. To identify the probability of potential off-site sources of contamination that 
could affect the environmental condition of the site. 
 
4.2 
Scope of Work 
 
4.2.1 Desktop Investigation 
 
The minimum information that must be obtained during the desktop investigation is as 
follows: 
 
a. Site identification – site name, address or lot number/postal code, land/property 
ownership; 
b. Site location – site boundaries, surrounding land uses, land use zoning, 
presence of surface water bodies and groundwater extraction wells, sensitive 
receptors (schools, child care centres, etc.) within 500 metre (m) radius, and 
underground services or structures in the site vicinity; 
c. Historical and current land use(s), the types of industry, activities, unit operation 
and chemical used, previous ESA, environmental incidents and potential 
existing soil/groundwater risks; 
d. Future intended land use; and 
e. Regional and site geological/hydrogeological information. 
 
4.2.2 Site Reconnaissance 
 
The purpose of site reconnaissance is to obtain information indicating the likelihood of 
identifying RECs in conjunction with the site activities. The site reconnaissance shall 
consist of: 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
a. A walkover inspection of the site and within a 250 m radius from the site 
boundaries. On-site inspection shall include identification of potential areas and 
chemicals 
of 
concerns 
(such 
as 
chemical 
storage 
areas 
and 
underground/aboveground tanks), condition of site covering (such as surface 
material and condition, effect on the potential for contaminant ingress), site 
topography, surface staining, stressed vegetation, and location of aboveground 
as well as underground utilities/piping; 
b. Interviews with relevant facility or site personnel to gather relevant current and 
historical site information; 
c. Review of the site’s general operations process flow and process waste 
handling; 
d. Identification of potentially sensitive receptors; and 
e. Collection of photographs of areas of potential concern, neighbouring land uses 
and other relevant observations related to potential land contamination. 
 
Additional guidance for desktop investigation and site reconnaissance can be found in 
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) E-1527-13 (Standard Practice for 
Environmental Site Assessments: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process), 
or the latest version, to the extent practicable in Singapore. 
 
4.2.3 Development of Conceptual Site Model (CSM) 
 
A CSM shall be generated based on the information obtained from the desktop 
investigation and site reconnaissance. Basic components of a CSM are as follows: 
 
a. General setting of the site within a local and regional context (land use, 
topography, geology/hydrogeology, etc.); 
b. Potential sources of contamination and release mechanisms; 
c. Potential migration pathways; 
d. Potential exposure pathways; and 
e. Potential sensitive receptors. 
 
The CSM should be consistent with the complexity of the site and identified issues. 
Additional guidance for CSM development can be found in ASTM E1689-95 
(Developing Conceptual Site Models). 
 
5.0 
Step 3 Development of Investigation Strategy 
 
5.1 
Field Investigation Objectives 
 
For ESA to establish the initial condition of the site, the objective of the intrusive field 
investigation is to collect representative and reliable soil and groundwater data (or 
other media, where applicable) at the suitable locations to confirm and refine the CSM 
developed during the preliminary investigation. The information gathered during 
intrusive field investigations are used to provide technically justified conclusions on 
site contamination. 
 
Site investigations for other purposes (such as spill and leak investigation or additional 
ESA to close out identified data gaps) may require more specific objectives and 
therefore a different sampling/investigation strategy. 
 
5.2 
Sampling Strategies 
 
Based on the preliminary investigation findings, the locations, quantity and types of 
samples to be collected should be identified. The ESA consultant should take a 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
conservative approach to manage uncertainties and ensure the ESA is robust and 
defensible. 
 
5.2.1 Determining Sampling Media 
 
As a minimum, soil and groundwater samples shall be collected at the site for baseline 
ESA. Additional/supplementary investigation may require sampling of other media 
such as soil vapour, surface water, sediments, and biological media, as necessary or 
where applicable. 
 
5.2.2 Determining Analytes 
 
For the ESA purpose, contaminants of concern (COCs) are typically identified on the 
basis of a site inspection, review of available information, and a site history review.  
Given that the investigation required is an environmental site assessment, analytes 
covering known future or expected chemicals to be used on the site (not necessarily 
used on the site in the past or at the time of the ESA investigation) should also be 
included in the analytical regime, where possible. 
 
Appendix A.2 lists the possible COCs of some typical industries in Singapore, 
including refineries, electronics, shipbuilding, wood-based furnishing, petrol stations, 
electro-plating, and waste treatment factories.  It is worth to note that the listed COCs 
are not exhaustive.  In the cases where the industries or manufacturing-specific 
chemicals are not listed in this Guideline, the responsible parties and their qualified 
consultants shall determine the COCs based on their best professional judgement. 
 
As a minimum for baseline ESA, the analytes to be tested shall be the full suite of 
analytes as referenced in the most recent version of the Dutch Environmental 
Guidelines Soil Remediation Circular (Dutch Guidelines). Please refer to APPENDIX 
A.1 for further information. 
 
 
Analysis of other media, other analytes (e.g. asbestos, dioxin/furan, radioactive 
materials, perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), etc.), 
or other test methods (e.g. Toxicity Characteristics and Leaching Procedure (TCLP), 
Synthetic Precipitation Leaching Procedure (SPLP), etc.) shall be based on the current 
and historic land use of the site and the purpose of the investigation. 
 
5.2.3 Sampling Locations and Number 
 
Sampling locations should focus on the areas which have been identified as areas of 
potential concern in the preliminary investigation, such as confirmed RECs, chemicals 
or petroleum products storage areas, waste oil storage and disposal areas, areas with 
visual/written evidence of potential leakage or spillage of chemicals or petroleum 
product, waste or sludge burial areas, etc. 
 
For sites located near the sea or water sources, down gradient and site boundary 
sampling locations should be considered. This will be useful in providing information 
about contaminants migration to the water bodies. 
The number of boreholes for soil sampling should be based on a site area and type of 
land use. Additional locations should be selected in identified areas of concern. 
A guide is given below for the minimum number of boreholes (Table 1) for a baseline 
ESA.  
 
Table 1 – Minimum Borehole for ESA 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Area (m2) 
 
≤10,000 
10,001 – 50,000 
50,001 – 100,000 
>100,000 
5 
8 
11 
20 
 
ESA consultant shall be required to submit a location plan showing the potential area/s 
and chemical/s of concerns from Section 4.2.2.  The location plan shall indicate the 
location of ESA boreholes.  ESA consultant shall be required to provide rationale for 
siting of boreholes in relation to the potential area/s and chemical of concerns.  If the 
ESA Consultant fails to select representative sampling location without any valid 
explanation, JTC reserve the right to request for additional ESA borehole at appropriate 
location/s during the review of ESA report. 
 
Based on the site-specific conditions and sampling objectives, the ESA Consultant 
may not require converting all boreholes into monitoring wells. However, at least 60% 
of the boreholes or a minimum of three (3), whichever is higher, must be converted 
into monitoring wells in order to generate groundwater elevation contours for 
estimation of groundwater flow direction. 
 
5.3 
Sampling of Other Media 
 
Sampling strategy for other media such as soil vapour, surface water, sediments or 
biological media shall be proposed by the ESA Consultant based on internationally 
recognised practices, guidelines, or standards such as the ASTM. 
 
Likely scenarios that would require sampling of other media include but are not limited 
to: 
 
a. Surface water sampling – observable presence or indication of contamination 
originating from the site in adjacent or down gradient surface water (areas used 
or intended to be used for drainage purposes and water areas such as 
reservoirs, ponds, rivers and other water channels); 
b. Soil vapour/gas sampling – presence of volatile contaminants in soil or 
groundwater that may pose risks of vapour intrusion into buildings or vapour 
inhalation (indoor or outdoor) by human receptors. Ambient indoor air 
monitoring may be conducted in conjunction with soil vapour sampling; 
c. Sediment sampling – typically considered only for foreshore sites or when the 
site is at close proximity to natural or unlined water bodies. Collection of shallow 
(less than 0.25 m below ground surface (bgs)) sediment material samples from 
intertidal zones or shallow water bodies to assess potential presence of 
contaminants or provide characterisation of sediment conditions; 
d. Biota sampling – when evaluating how contaminants are accumulated in the 
food chain or looking for evidence of short or long range transport of the said 
contaminants. Risk assessment to be based on known ecological report of the 
contaminant. 
 
5.4 
Further investigation 
 
A baseline ESA may lead to additional or supplementary investigations if the overall 
ESA objectives are not met, or if the findings recommend further actions. Further 
investigations may need an updated or new set of investigation strategies. 
 
5.5 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
To achieve quality fieldwork, including all actions, procedures, checks and decisions 
undertaken to ensure the representativeness and integrity of samples and worksite 
safety, the ESA Consultant is required to provide full-time site supervision during the 
whole period of soil, groundwater or other media sampling. 
 
It is recommended that quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) samples should 
include: 
 
a. Trip Blank – a trip blank ratio of one (1) trip blank per shipment; 
b. Equipment Blank – one (1) equipment blank per day of sampling. Equipment 
blanks should be collected from final rinse water after equipment 
decontamination is completed as it is poured over the equipment being 
decontaminated; 
c. Duplicate Sample - A minimum of 1 duplicate soil per 20 samples and 1 
duplicate groundwater per 10 samples are to be collected. For large scale and 
complex projects involving more than one laboratory, inter-laboratory 
duplicates should be considered to ensure data from primary laboratory is 
checked for quality; and 
d. Field Blank – One (1) daily field blank for projects is recommended where 
applicable (e.g. at sites where high volatile organic compound (VOC) 
concentration in the atmosphere is suspected). 
 
For QA/QC purpose, the laboratory should be independent from the parties involved 
in the sample collections. The ESA Consultant or drilling subcontractor should not be 
associated to the laboratory conducting the analysis of the samples. Laboratories are 
required to have relevant SAC-SINGLAS accreditation to ensure quality of the 
analytical results. 
 
Field QA/QC samples should be named/labelled without reference to the type of 
QA/QC samples and to the corresponding duplicate samples. 
 
The Chain of Custody document must be prepared and submitted to the laboratory by 
the ESA Consultant. The CoC document should include sampling date, sample 
identification, matrix type, container information, sampler, project name and location, 
and shipping details. A copy of the signed Chain of Custody documentation must be 
provided as an attachment or appendix to the ESA report. 
 
6.0 
Step 4 Field Investigation 
 
6.1 
Permitting/H&S Consideration 
 
All field activities must be conducted in compliance with MOM’s safety regulations and 
other statutory requirements. All necessary documents or permits such as site access, 
valid permits (where applicable) must be obtained prior to any intrusive site works. 
 
A copy of the H&S Plan should be maintained at the site at all times during the field 
work. The ESA Consultant and all workers are expected to observe and follow 
appropriate health and safety procedures as stated in the H&S Plan. The H&S Plan 
should be communicated to all workers on-site prior to start of any work through a 
safety briefing. 
 
6.2 
Detection and Protection of Utility Infrastructure 
 
Prior to sampling, the ESA Consultant should carry out all necessary works to detect 
and protect existing transport and utilities infrastructure, such as railway, pipes, cables, 
wires, apparatuses, appliances, equipment, installations, fittings and fixtures that 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
provide transportation, water, electricity, telecommunications network, gas or carry 
water-borne sewerage. This includes purchasing relevant plans from the relevant 
authorities or utilities service providers. However, the ESA Consultant should note that 
some underground utilities infrastructure existing at the sites may not be shown on the 
purchased plans. Notwithstanding this, the ESA Consultant is responsible for 
conducting a thorough check by using appropriate equipment, carrying out trial pits or 
carrying out other necessary steps to ensure that their works will not damage any 
existing utilities infrastructure. 
 
All relevant codes of practice, rules and regulations pertaining to transport 
infrastructures and utilities must be complied with. Additionally, the ESA Consultant 
should liaise with the relevant authorities and utilities service providers to obtain 
requisite approvals prior to carry out any sampling works in the vicinity of any utilities 
infrastructure and comply with all conditions and requirements which may be imposed 
by such authorities and utilities service providers. Additionally, the ESA Consultant 
should carry out all the drilling works in accordance with the requirement set out by 
LTA/BCA. Pre-consultation with LTA/BCA shall be made if clarification is required. 
 
6.3 
Techniques and Soil Sampling Methods 
 
6.3.1 General 
 
The drilling methods should be selected in the context of the ESA objectives, 
Singapore regulations, guidelines, sub-surface conditions, local equipment availability 
and access constraints. In general, dry drilling capable of obtaining undisturbed 
samples is preferred. Drilling fluids will not be permitted during drilling operations as 
drilling fluids lead to soluble contaminant losses and drilling air leads to volatile losses. 
 
At least 1.5 m of the borehole must be advanced using manual drilling or non-
destructive drilling techniques such as use of hand auger, air knife or vacuum 
excavation to confirm the absence of underground services at the borehole location. 
Mechanical drilling, such as hollow-stem auger (with split spoon sampler), direct push 
or solid-stem auger, may be used to advance the borehole from 1.5 m up to the 
terminal depth. 
 
Borehole diameters should be specified in the Work Plan with justification for 
subsequent well annulus spacing. 
 
6.3.2 Sampling Depths and Intervals 
 
Sampling interval shall be decided on the basis of hydro-geological characteristics of 
the subsurface strata. The sampling depths, intervals, and testing should be sufficient 
to enable the assessment and delineation of any potential contaminants identified.  For 
the purpose of ESA, the following sampling scheme is recommended based on 
sampling practice and the knowledge of subsurface hydro-geological conditions in 
Singapore.  
 
For each borehole at all sites, the first soil sample shall be taken between 0.3 and 0.5 
m below ground level (bgl).  Subsequent samples in the borehole shall be taken at 
every 1.5 m interval (ie. 1.5 m, 3 m, 4.5 m, etc.) up to 6 m bgl or at least 2 m below 
groundwater level, whichever is deeper. In the event where groundwater level is 
deeper than 6 m, additional samples shall be taken at every 2.5 m interval until 20 m 
bgl or until 2 m below groundwater, whichever is shallower.  For each borehole where 
groundwater is encountered, the borehole should be converted to a monitoring well.  
One groundwater sample should be collected from each monitoring well within 2 m 
below groundwater level for further analysis. Specific mention should be made within 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
the sampling plan for assessing the presence of any contaminants, notably phase 
separated hydrocarbons (PSH) or indication of similar non-aqueous phase liquids that 
may float on the water table.  In addition, there might be some seasonal or tidal 
fluctuation in the water table. This should be assessed and commented, where 
applicable. 
 
Due to heterogeneity and stratified nature of subsurface geology, the exact subsurface 
hydro-geological conditions will only be known during drilling.  The pre-determined 
sampling depth and sampling interval shall be adjusted if necessary as work 
progresses.  If the baseline data obtained from the site characterisation are doubtful or 
disputable, additional site characterisation may be necessary.  
 
To facilitate laboratory analysis, only part of the samples collected would be tested. 
For each borehole, the sampling for analysis/test shall include but not limited to:  
 
(a) 
one near surface top layer soil sample (0.3 to 0.5m);  
 
(b) 
one soil sample per every stratum (in addition to (a), particularly including 
the upper boundary of any layers of low relative permeability (eg. clay), since 
there is typically a higher potential for contaminants to accumulate there;   
 
(c) 
one soil sample from the saturated zone near the boundary with the 
unsaturated (ie. the vadose zone – where the water table is first 
encountered), since there is a potential for contaminants which are insoluble 
in water (eg. phase separated hydrocarbons) to accumulate there; and 
 
(d) 
one groundwater sample.   
 
More samples shall be taken for testing as deemed necessary by the responsible 
parties and their qualified consultants. 
 
For reclaimed lands, at least 40% of total boreholes should be drilled down to 2 m 
below the original soil to provide a better characterisation of the fill material and 
underlying original soil. 
 
6.3.3 Sample Collection 
 
It is recommended that soil samples be collected directly from the sampler (split spoon 
or equivalent sampling tools). Soil samples shall be collected directly from the sampler 
and placed into appropriate containers for headspace volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) screening. When a soil sample is selected for laboratory analysis, a portion 
directly collected from the sampler shall be placed into a laboratory certified clean 
sample container. All soil samples should be properly labelled e.g. borehole ID, depth, 
date and project reference number. 
 
Soil samples to be analysed for VOCs should be undisturbed. Soil samples for metals 
analysis should be homogenised to provide representative analysis of actual 
conditions. 
 
The following QA/QC procedures should be followed during sample collection: 
 
• 
All sampling equipment should be decontaminated prior to and after obtaining 
each sample where the sampling equipment is not disposable; 
• 
Field personnel should wear suitable types of gloves (PVC/latex/nitrile) 
depending on contaminants of concern, whilst handling sampling equipment 
and collecting samples; 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
• 
Gloves should be replaced between the handling of each sample; 
• 
All samples should be properly chilled in cooler boxes immediately after sample 
collection, prior to delivery to the accredited laboratory. 
 
6.3.4 Screening 
 
Field screening tools should be selected to best achieve the ESA objectives. Soil 
samples should be headspace screened in the field during sample collection for VOCs 
with a PID or similar equipment such as a flame ionisation detector (FID) to provide 
on-site identification of samples likely to contain high concentrations of VOCs. It should 
be noted that the PID/FID/handheld device should only be used for sample selection 
and not as an alternative for laboratory test.  
 
Other soil/groundwater screening tools, such as heavy metals analyser, Total 
Petroleum Hydrocarbon (TPH) analyser, pesticide screening kit, etc., may also be 
utilised during field work if deemed necessary for the purpose of the ESA. 
 
6.3.5 Sample Logging 
 
Subsurface conditions encountered at every borehole or trial pit should be logged 
using the US Soil Classification System (USCS) and recorded in a boring log. Each 
boring log should include the following information:  date, project/site name, borehole 
identification, borehole location, sampler’s name, driller’s name, drilling method, depth 
of groundwater level as observed during drilling, depth of monitoring well once 
stabilised, screened intervals, thickness of filter pack and bentonite plug. Depths 
should be referred to as below ground surface (bgs). 
 
In addition to USCS descriptions, visual and general olfactory (odour) observations 
should be recorded in the boring log together with any other relevant information that 
assists development of the CSM, such as drilling resistance. 
 
It should be noted that sample logging should not be limited to soil samples. The 
descriptions should be a continual process based on undisturbed cores and/or drill 
cuttings observations. 
 
6.3.6 Borehole Reinstatement 
 
Boreholes that are not to be converted into monitoring wells should be backfilled with 
the soil cuttings from the original borehole or with clean soil from identified sources 
and sealed with clean, low permeability material as such bentonite/cement grout. The 
borehole surface should be reinstated in line with surrounding surface conditions. 
 
6.4 
Monitoring Well Installation 
 
6.4.1 General 
 
Monitoring wells should be installed at the boreholes for groundwater monitoring 
activities. Monitoring wells should be designed such that the construction would allow 
the presence of sufficient groundwater for sample collection in consideration of 
groundwater level fluctuation. The monitoring well should also be appropriately 
designed such that anticipated contaminants being targeted are captured, including 
free phase hydrocarbons (light non-aqueous phase liquid (LNAPL) and dense non-
aqueous phase liquids (DNAPL)). 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
6.4.2 Well Construction Materials 
 
Well Casing 
The monitoring well casing should be a clean, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or similar inert 
material pipe, with internal diameter of 50 mm, that can withstand the corrosiveness 
of the anticipated chemicals present in the groundwater. The casing is composed of a 
slotted section (well screen) and a blank section (riser pipe). 
 
Filter Pack 
The filter pack is used to fill the annular space between the borehole and the well 
casing and should consist of clean graded gravel or coarse sand with a particle size 
range that is sufficient to allow unrestricted entry of free phase hydrocarbons. 
 
Bentonite 
Bentonite should be used to seal or plug the well annular space to prevent the 
infiltration of the surface water through ground surface above potentially contaminated 
material into the filter pack and well screen. The preferred form is in pellet form to allow 
ease of application and minimising penetration into the filter pack, which usually 
happens in liquid bentonite or slurry. 
 
Protective Cover/Casing 
Monitoring wells should have a protective metal or steel cover where they are deemed 
necessary. Well covers may be in the form of flush-mounted metal covers or 
aboveground steel risers, depending on suitability and location. 
 
6.4.3 Installation Details 
 
Following completion of drilling, the well casing (consisting of well screen, riser and 
bottom cap) is assembled and lowered into the borehole. The well casing must extend 
such that the screened portion is at least 2 m below the minimum expected 
groundwater level. The well screen must extend to at least 0.5 m above the stabilised 
groundwater level in consideration of groundwater fluctuation. The well casing must 
be centred within the borehole. Centralisers may be used particularly for deep well 
installations (> 8 m bgs) to ensure proper well casing position and alignment. The 
screen length may be adjusted accordingly for groundwater level <0.5 m bgs. 
 
The borehole annular space is progressively filled with filter pack from the bottom until 
0.5 m above the top of the screen, whenever possible, but may be adjusted accordingly 
for groundwater level <0.5 m bgs. To eliminate possible bridging or creation of voids, 
placement of the sand pack may require the use of a tremie pipe. Use of tremie pipe 
is generally suggested for deep water table wells and for wells which are screened 
some distance beneath the water table. 
 
A layer of bentonite pellets, with a minimum of 0.5 m thickness whenever possible, is 
placed immediately above the filter pack. The thickness of the bentonite layer may be 
adjusted accordingly for groundwater level <0.5 m bgs. Care shall be taken to avoid 
introducing bentonite into the well casing. 
 
For all groundwater monitoring well installations, connections between PVC 
slotted pipes and riser shall be made with threaded connections. No glue shall 
be used. 
 
Figure 1 illustrates the typical groundwater monitoring well construction. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
Figure 1 – Typical Groundwater Monitoring Well Construction 
 
 
6.4.4 Well Completion 
 
Following the emplacement of the bentonite seal, each permanent monitoring well 
should be finished by concreting either a flush mounted, metal casing/cover or 
galvanised monument with clear well ID label on the concrete pad surface or on the 
metal cover. The flush mounted cover is best suited to high traffic areas; covers should 
at least provide sufficient strength to withstand normal vehicular traffic.  Proper well 
covers can provide protection for the monitoring well from the weather, tampering, 
vehicular movements and accidental destruction. 
 
Each temporary monitoring well should be constructed with a protective casing to 
avoid external disturbance or vandalism that may cause intrusion of potential 
contamination into the well; temporary monitoring wells should be properly abandoned 
as soon as reasonably possible, refer to Section 5.5 for more details. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
6.4.5 Well Development 
 
All newly constructed monitoring wells should be developed 24 hours after installation 
to allow the bentonite grout to set. The aim of development is to create both backward 
and forward surging action in monitoring well screen and gravel pack to breakup and 
remove fines. Proper development of monitoring wells is essential for the collection of 
representative groundwater samples in the wells. During the drilling, fines are forced 
into the soil formation, forming a mud cake that reduces the hydraulic conductivity of 
the materials in the immediate area of the well bore. To allow water to freely enter the 
monitoring well from the soil formation being monitored, this mud cake must be broken 
down opposite the screened portion of the well and the fines removed from the well. 
 
Well development involves physical purging of each monitoring well by carefully 
lowering the bailer into the centre of the screened portion of the monitoring well and 
removing groundwater from the monitoring well. 
 
Field parameters of groundwater should be measured during well development. These 
include temperature, pH, redox potential, electrical conductivity (EC), and dissolved 
oxygen (DO). These measurements should be conducted and recorded at every well 
volume of the groundwater purged. Well development should be continued until 5 well 
volumes are removed or if the monitoring well purges dry before 5 well volumes are 
removed, development may be discontinued. The following information is to be 
recorded on the groundwater sampling field data sheet: 
 
• 
Date and time; 
• 
Water level; 
• 
Purged volume; 
• 
Odour; 
• 
Colour; 
• 
Turbidity and field parameter values; 
• 
Monitoring well ID. 
 
6.5 
Well Decommissioning 
 
Monitoring wells may be decommissioned when: (1) they are no longer needed in the 
site’s monitoring program, or (2) the well’s integrity is suspect or compromised. Similar 
terms for ‘decommissioning’ include ‘abandonment’, ‘plugging’ or ‘grouting’. The aim 
of decommissioning is to permanently seal the well to prevent the entry of fluids or 
contaminants from the surface and the mixing of fluids or pressures between aquifers. 
Decommissioning by fully grouting from top to bottom is the preferred method and is 
discussed here. However, as this is not always the most practical method, other 
options may also be employed, including grouting from screen to surface, grouting in-
place followed by case pulling, and over-drilling. The ESA Consultant should review 
bore logs or well construction details and historic gauging data to determine the 
suitability of the method. The ESA Consultant shall provide records that 
decommissioning of the monitoring wells has been accomplished in accordance with 
the ESA guidelines. 
 
6.5.1 Grouting from Bottom to Top 
 
Fully grouting from top to bottom is the simplest and most commonly used method for 
grouting shallow monitoring wells and the only acceptable method where there is a 
possibility the well is screened across multiple aquifers. This involves completely filling 
the well with a cement/bentonite grout. Suggested ratio of cement to bentonite is 3-5% 
bentonite by dry weight. Options for different cement/bentonite mix may be used 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
depending on suitability, provided that the mix contains sufficient bentonite to make it 
impermeable to water but not too viscous to pump or pour into the well. The well 
cover/protective casing should be removed, including the stick up riser and concrete 
pad, if present. 
 
For shallow wells (< 4 m), the PVC well casing may be pulled out prior to filling in with 
grout. If not possible, the PVC well casing should be cut off at a level below the 
surrounding concrete slab (if present). Pour or pump the grout into the well until filled. 
Surface completion should be done to reinstate the ground in line with surrounding 
surface conditions. 
 
6.6 
Groundwater Sampling Methods 
 
6.61 
General 
 
Groundwater sample shall be collected from the monitoring well installed after the 
completion of drilling and well development. Groundwater sampling methods available 
include use of bailers, low flow sampling, no-purge sampling or other sampling 
technologies following the ASTM guidelines. The selected method and rationale 
should be clearly outlined in the Work Plan by the ESA Consultant. 
 
6.7 
Equipment Decontamination 
 
The drilling/sampling tools must be cleaned prior to each use, and when transferring 
to a new location. This is to avoid cross contamination between locations and samples 
(soil, groundwater, sediment, etc.). 
This can be conducted by: 
 
• 
Washing and scrubbing the tools with phosphate free detergent followed by a 
tap water rinse; and subsequently 
• 
Air drying. 
 
6.8 
Elevation and Coordinates Survey 
 
Newly-installed monitoring wells shall be surveyed for well and ground elevations 
based on a known or temporary bench mark. GPS coordinates in SVY21 system must 
also be recorded for each well. 
 
6.9 
Sample Handling and Documentation 
 
The samples should be collected into the appropriate containers cleaned and supplied 
by the accredited laboratory. Samples should be placed into a cooler box and be 
properly chilled before being received by the laboratory. 
 
Information such as project identification, sample identifications, sample matrix, 
sampler, dates of sampling, dates and times of sample relinquishments and receipts, 
types of analysis required, and other relevant information should be documented and 
signed off on the Chain of Custody forms. The proper Chain of Custody procedures 
have to be complied during sample shipments. 
 
Field QA/QC samples should be named/labelled without reference to the type of 
QA/QC samples and corresponding duplicate samples. 
 
6.10 
Methods of Analysis 
 
The recommended methods of analysis for various analytes are shown in Appendix 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
A.3. If listed methods are not available, appropriate methods may be selected from the 
list of approved analytical methods publishing organizations provided at the end of 
table. 
 
The laboratory’s levels/limits of reporting (LORs) should be lower than the soil and 
groundwater quality standards or screening levels. If these LORs are not achievable 
by the available analytical technologies in Singapore, then analysis should be 
performed by a qualified international laboratory. 
 
6.11 
Waste Management 
 
6. 11.1 Disposal of Wastes 
 
Waste management controls should be anticipated prior to field investigation and 
detailed in the Work Plan. The ESA Consultant should ensure field-derived wastes are 
disposed of in an appropriate manner. Waste segregation should be considered based 
on anticipated waste types: (1) those that require licensed transportation and disposal; 
and (2) those that can be recycled or disposed of as general waste. 
 
For proper disposal of contaminated soils and liquids, please refer to NEA’s list of 
licensed toxic industrial waste collectors. 
 
6. 11.2 Spill Control and Management 
 
Control and management of spills should be detailed in the Work Plan and/or H&S 
Plan. Corrective actions shall be dependent upon the size, location, type of material in 
the spill (contaminated soil/water, etc.) and risks of environmental harm, fire or other 
emergency situations. For small-scale spills, the spill should be contained through the 
use of absorbents. In the event of a large spill, where there is a potential for risk of 
injury to personnel, environmental harm and/or fire, the area must be evacuated and 
emergency services must be notified such as the Fire Station (nearest) or Police 
Station (nearest). Following any spill incident, JTC must be immediately notified and 
an Incident Report is to be submitted to JTC as soon as possible. 
 
7.0 
Step 5 Selection of Soil and Groundwater Quality Standards or Screening 
Level 
 
7.1 
Standard of Assessment 
 
Entry ESA 
 
Standard values are needed whereby the chemical compound levels found in the soil 
and groundwater can be matched.  The comparison between the actual levels found 
and the standard values will determine the level and extent of contamination of the site 
and the appropriate remedial actions to take. 
 
The latest Dutch Standards are adopted for assessing land contamination and 
remediation. The Dutch Standards specify two sets of limits (Dutch Target Values and 
Dutch Intervention Values) for heavy metals, inorganic compounds, aromatic 
compounds, hydrocarbons, pesticides and other pollutants in both soils and 
groundwater.  
 
When there is an exceedance of Dutch Intervention Values (DIV) in Entry ESA, the 
ESA consultant shall identify the potential source of contamination and provide an 
assessment if the site is suitable for its intended usage.  
 
The ESA consultant is required to perform risk assessment and provide 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
recommendation if there is potential human health risk. The risk assessment shall 
include the risk arising from contamination to both construction and operational 
scenarios of the site. As part of the risk assessment, remediation/mitigation/monitoring 
shall also be explored or recommended to overcome the associated risks. The 
methodology of risk assessment study shall be in accordance with Singapore Standard 
SS593:2013 (Code of Practice for Pollution Control). 
 
Exit ESA 
ESA consultant shall refer to Entry ESA borehole locations and compare with the 
contamination level established in Entry ESA. Comparison shall be made between 
Entry and Exit ESA. Remediation will be required when the Exit ESA level indicates 
that the contamination level exceeds Entry ESA (initial baseline condition) or prevailing 
Dutch standards2 (i.e DIV), whichever is less stringent. If the contamination is 
assessed to be caused by others, evidence shall be provided to JTC for evaluation 
and acceptance on case-by-case basis.  
 
 
7.2 
Remediation  
 
If the site is found contaminated, the responsible parties involved shall be required to 
remediate the property by restoring it to either: 
 
• the standards required by relevant authorities or in the absence of such 
requirement, the prevailing Dutch Standards; or 
• the Entry ESA /baseline established (if any) at the commencement of the 
original lease term, whichever is less stringent.  
 
However, if the original lease already contains a stipulation that decontamination back 
to the initial baseline condition at the commencement of lease is required, no option 
will be given to comply with whichever standard that is less stringent.  Besides, it is 
necessary to remediate any off-site adjacent contaminated land so long as the 
contaminant emanated from the subject site. This principle will hold even when risk 
assessment has shown that the site is safe for occupants.  
 
In order to conduct remediation, the ESA Consultant shall include but not be limited to 
the following steps:  
(a) establish the extent of the contamination (in terms of the area and depth) to 
size up the scope of work. The extent of the contamination shall be proven 
using the accredited laboratory and agreed by JTC prior to remediation.  
While field-based analytics such as handheld scanner or field test kits could 
be adopted for preliminary data, the extent of contamination shall be 
established with sampling and laboratory analysis from accredited 
laboratory. 
 
(b) propose suitable remediation methods for treating contaminants to the level 
below DIV or first ESA level, whichever less stringent and submit to JTC for 
review. ESA Consultant shall highlight any non-compliance to the target 
level/ standard for remediation of contaminated sites in the remediation 
proposal. Nonetheless, JTC acceptance on the proposed remediation 
method does not relieve ESA consultant’s responsibilities and compliances 
to the required target level/ standard for remediation. 
 
(c) conduct the remediation based on the proposed method. After 
 
2 For clarity, DIV will be considered as the baseline for comparison if no entry ESA report was 
submitted for JTC’s acceptance.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
decontamination is completed, conduct retest at the same locations of the 
affected boreholes to ascertain if the remediation met the standard 
required. When conducting retest of the affected boreholes, there is a need 
to retest all the contaminants instead of the exceeded contaminants only. 
In case of uncertainty in value. The new ESA values will supersede the 
previous ESA values as the exit ESA for the site.  
 
(d) submit the revised complete ESA report that includes but not limited to the 
remediation report, laboratory results and certification of remediation. 
 
7.3 
Certification of Remediated Sites 
 
The remediated sites shall be certified by an ESA expert/specialist consultant to meet 
the standards required. 
 
The certification shall contain the following: 
 
(a) a statement that the subject site has been remediated to meet the standards 
required; and  
(b) a statement that the certification given is a true and unbiased representation 
of the facts and that all reasonable professional skill, care and diligence have 
been taken in checking the facts 
 
The originals or authenticated copies of the certification shall be submitted to JTC 
Corporation for review and approval. 
 
8.0 
Step 5 Reporting 
 
8.1 
General Structure 
 
In general, an ESA report should include and cover the major components as listed 
below: 
 
• 
Executive summary; 
• 
Objectives and work scope; 
• 
Client’s business operation; 
• 
Declaration through the declaration checklist (in Appendix A.1) that ESA was 
performed in accordance to the ESA guidelines or if not, highlight any 
deviations and provide corresponding justifications; 
• 
Site background information including site history, site location and 
characteristics, site layout and features, site activities, surrounding land uses, 
topography, geology, soils, fill, hydrology and hydrogeology; 
• 
Site Inspection including boundary conditions, surface conditions, storage 
tanks, other chemical use and storage, drainage, stains, odours and stressed 
vegetation and potential COCs and areas of Concern; 
• 
Location plan with indication of the subject site 
• 
Preliminary investigation findings; 
• 
Regional geological and hydrogeological information; 
• 
Fieldwork findings, including field observations of soil and groundwater 
characteristics, monitoring well construction and ground water levels (RL), 
visual/olfactory observations; 
• 
Accurate coordinates of boreholes and monitoring wells 
• 
QA/QC of field and analytical data 
• 
Conceptual site model; 
• 
Assumptions; 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
• 
Discussion of laboratory analytical results including determination of level of 
contamination and assessment of potential impact; 
• 
Comparison of the results with the baseline (if any); 
• 
Qualitative or Quantitative Risk Assessment, including confidence level of the 
assessment (e.g. 95% upper confident level); 
• 
To indicate any areas of non-compliances with this set of guidelines; 
• 
Conclusion including Potential contamination and impact to the site based on 
laboratory analytical results, site inspection and other available information, 
Likely nature and extent of any identified contamination and impact  
• 
Recommendation including requirements for remediation and follow-up actions 
(if any)). 
 
In conjunction with the reporting structure listed above, appropriate supporting 
documents/ annexures should also be included to cover the following: 
 
• 
Plan showing sampling locations including all borehole, monitoring well, test 
pit, etc., locations and known or anticipated groundwater flow direction.  Also 
include any pre-existing wells. 
• 
Photographs of site, site condition, site layout plan indicating major/relevant 
features 
(e.g. 
buildings, 
surface 
coverings/materials, 
underground/aboveground storage tanks, chemical handling and storage 
areas, etc.) and adjacent land uses; 
• 
Drilling methodologies; 
• 
Soil boring logs and groundwater monitoring well construction diagrams; 
• 
Field datasheets; 
• 
Data of soil and groundwater analytical results; 
• 
Original laboratory analytical report (including laboratory QA/QC reports); 
• 
Chain of Custody documentation; 
• 
Other relevant documents (e.g. PID Equipment Calibration Certificate). 
• 
Inventory of chemicals used in client’s operation 
 
9.0  
Conclusions  
 
The above information is a brief guidance on conducting environmental site 
assessment.  It should be noted that the various tests and experiments conducted shall 
be accurate and professionally done so as to achieve a satisfactory environmental site 
assessment. JTC has the discretion to require further tests, experiments, assessments 
or investigations of similar nature, to be conducted on the Property and a subsequent 
report furnished (at no costs to JTC), in the event any of the tests and experiments 
conducted and/or information stated above is not to JTC’s satisfaction. 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
APPENDIX A.1. 
 
SELF-DECLARATION FORM FOR ENVIRONMENT SITE ASSESSMENT ("ESA") 
    
Please complete this Form based on the outcome of the tests carried out in accordance with JTC’s 
Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) Requirements and Technical Guideline (2024 Edition) 
("Guideline"). The completed Form must be submitted to JTC together with the following: 
1. ESA Report; and  
2. the ESA data (based on Dutch Standard 2013) in the Excel format which can be downloaded from the 
link below: 
https://go.gov.sg/esa-exceldata-dutchstandards2013 
 
If you require any assistance completing this Form, please contact:   
JTC Corporation  
Technical Services Division  
The JTC Summit 8 Jurong Town Hall Road  
Singapore 609434  
  
Oh Guo Liang (Mr)  
DID: 6883 5156 
Email: Oh_Guo_Liang@jtc.gov.sg 
 
Note: Please note that JTC collects the information contained in the completed ESA excel form and may 
share necessary data with other Government agencies (or non-Government entities which have been 
authorised to carry out specific Government services), unless such sharing is prohibited by legislation.  
 
 
PARTICULARS OF LESSEE/TENANT 
Name of Lessee: 
(as per Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority registry) 
 
 
Address of Site: 
(Unit Number, Road Name, Allocation No. and Mukim No): 
 
 
 
 (A) TYPE OF SUBMISSION:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) New 
Allocation 
(b) 
Lease/Tenancy 
Renewal 
(c) 
Temporary 
Occupation 
License 
(d) 
Assignment 
(e) Change 
of Use3. 
(e) 
Expiry/Termination 
of Lease/Tenancy 
 
 (B) PURPOSE OF ENVIRONMENTAL SITE ASSESSMENT REPORT:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Entry ESA/Set 
baseline 
(b) Exit ESA with 
baseline 
(c) Exit ESA 
without 
baseline 
(d) Others  
If Others, please specify: 
_________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
(C) CONDITIONS WHICH THE LESSEE/TENANT AND THE QUALIFIED CONSULTANT MUST COMPLY 
WITH:   
 
3 Change of use refers to change to pollutive activities. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
1) The Environmental Site Assessment report submitted shall comply with the Guidelines stipulated 
by JTC. 
Checklist Item 
Does it comply with the guideline? 
If No or N.A, 
please explain 
why. 
Qualified Consultant listed by NEA 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
Development of Work Plan 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
Preliminary Investigation 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
Characterization of Subsurface Conditions based on the ESA Report: 
 
• sampling strategies and analysis plan 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• adequate boreholes 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• representative borehole locations 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Sampling interval and depth 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Near surface sample 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Soil sample per stratum 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Soil sample near vadose zone 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Reclaimed land sampling requirement 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Adequate monitoring wells 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Groundwater Samples  
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• QA/QC 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Determination of COC for sample 
analysis 
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• Method of Analysis 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
Determination of extent of subsurface contamination via reference to standards of assessment and based 
on the ESA Report: 
 
• 
Site location Plan 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
 Site Layout Plan 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
 Site Photographs 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
 Sampling locations  
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
 Direction of Groundwater flow 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
 Drilling methodologies 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
• 
Soil boring logs and groundwater 
monitoring well construction 
diagrams  
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
Field Documentation  
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
Data of soil and groundwater 
analytical results  
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
Laboratory analytical results 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
Chain of custody documentation 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
Inventory of chemicals used in 
client’s operation  
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
 
N.A. 
 
• 
State the version of Guidelines, 
Dutch Standards and other standards 
referenced (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Result of Soil Samples 
a) Is all the contaminant level(s) within the Dutch Intervention Value (DIV) based on the latest 
Dutch Standard? 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
b) If No, please complete the table below with a summary of the risk assessment result for both 
construction and targeted operation. 
 
Chemical of 
Concern 
(exceed Dutch 
Intervention 
Value) 
Dutch 
Intervention 
Value 
(mg/kg) 
Range Detected 
At Site  
(mg/kg) 
Number of 
samples 
exceeding Dutch 
Intervention 
Value 
Alternative 
Screening 
Criteria/Site 
Specific Target 
Level 
(mg/kg) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Result of Groundwater Samples 
a) Is all the contaminant level(s) within the Dutch Intervention Value (DIV) based on the latest 
Dutch Standard? 
 
Yes 
 
 
No 
 
b) If No, please complete the table below with a summary of the risk assessment result for both 
construction and targeted operation. 
 
Chemical of 
Concern 
(exceed Dutch 
Intervention 
Value) 
Dutch 
Intervention 
Value 
(µg/L) 
Range Detected 
At Site  
(µg/L) 
Number of 
samples 
exceeding Dutch 
Intervention 
Value 
Alternative 
Screening 
Criteria/Site 
Specific Target 
Level 
(µg/L) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4) 
Based on the result of the tests conducted, remediation is not required. 
 
Yes 
 
No 
If No, please state the possible source of contaminants and the mitigation measures. 
 
__________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
  
(D) DECLARATION:  
I am a Qualified Consultant listed by National Environmental Agency to carry out the 
Environmental Site Assessment. 
I confirm as follows: 
1. 
the information stated above is correct based on tests, experiments and requirements carried 
out in accordance with the Guidelines; 
2. 
 I have not withheld any information or particulars required in the Form and I shall immediately 
notify JTC in writing in the event of any changes in the information and particulars furnished in this 
Form; and 
I acknowledge that JTC has the discretion to require further tests, experiments, assessments or 
investigations of similar nature, to be conducted on the Property and a subsequent report furnished 
(at no costs to JTC), in the event any of the tests and experiments conducted and/or information 
stated above is not to JTC’s satisfaction. 
 
 
Signed by: 
 
_______________________________________ 
ENVIRONMENTAL SITE ASSESSMENT CONSULTANT 
Name: 
 
Designation: 
 
Name of 
Company : 
 
Email: 
 
Handphone No.: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A.2. Types of industries and their possible COCS 
Types of Industry 
Contaminants of Concern 
Electronics 
carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, 1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-
dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethlene, 
trans-1,2-dichloroethlene, trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, 
arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, nickel, zinc  
Other compounds not listed 
Electro-Plating 
1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, arsenic, chromium, 
cadmium, lead, copper, nickel, acids and bases 
Other compounds not listed 
Petrol Stations 
TPH, Benzene, ethyl benzene, toluene, xylene (BTEX) 
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons 
Phenols 
Lead 
Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether 
Other compounds not listed 
Petrochemicals 
benzene, carbon tetrachloride, chlorobenzenes, chloroform, 1,1-
dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-
dichloroethlene, trans-1,2-dichloroethlene, ethyl benzene, 
hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, hexachloroethylene, 
phenol, styrene, tetrachloroethane, tetrachloroethyene, 
trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, 2,4,6-trichlorophenil, 
polychlorinated biphenyls, cadmium, chromium, copper, lead, 
mercury, nickel, zinc 
Other compounds not listed 
Refineries 
benzene, toluene, xylene, total petroleum hydrocarbons, carbon 
tetrachloride, 1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, phenol, 
polychlorinated biphenyls, cadmium, chromium, copper, lead, 
mercury, zinc, PAHs 
Other compounds not listed 
Shipbuilding 
Heavy metals 
Volatile organics (solvent/paint) 
Semi-volatile organics 
Other compounds not listed 
Transformers 
/electrical 
substations 
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) 
Waste Disposal 
Site 
1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, cadmium, chromium, 
copper, lead, nickel 
Other compounds not listed 
Wood-based 
Heavy metals 
PAHs 
Pentachorophenols 
Other compounds not listed 
Note: The above listed chemicals are some typical contaminants of concern and are 
not exhaustive.  
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
APPENDIX A.3. LABORATORY METHODS  
Analytes Group 
Analytes 
Soil 
Groundwater 
Metals 
EPA 3051A 
EPA 3052 
EPA 3050B 
EPA 7471B 
APHA 3120B 
APHA 3125B 
EPA 6010D 
EPA 6020B 
EPA 7000B 
EPA 7010 
EPA 6010D 
EPA 6020B 
EPA 7000B 
EPA 7010 
EPA 3005 
EPA 7470 
APHA 3125B 
Inorganic 
Compounds 
Cyanide 
EPA 9010C 
EPA 9014 
APHA-4500-CN(N) 
EPA 9010C 
EPA 9014 
APHA-4500-CN(N) 
Aromatic 
Compounds: BTEX 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 5030 
EPA 3510C 
Polynuclear Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons (PAH) 
EPA 8310 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3545A 
EPA 8310 
EPA 8270D 
Chlorinated 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3501C 
Pesticides: Semi 
Volatile 
Organic Compounds 
(SVOCs) 
EPA 3545A 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3501C 
Other Pollutants: 
Volatile 
Organic Compounds 
(VOCs) 
Cyclohexanone 
Phthalates (Sum) 
Mineral Oils 
Pyridine 
Bromoform 
Tetrahydrofuran 
Tetrahydrothiophe
ne 
EPA 5035/ EPA 8260C / 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 3545A 
/ EPA 
8270D 
EPA 8015B 
EPA 5035 / EPA 8260C / 
EPA 
3545A / EPA 8270D 
EPA 5035 / EPA 8260C / 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 5021A 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C / EPA 5030B 
EPA 3510C / EPA 
8270D EPA 8015D 
EPA 5030B / EPA 
8260C 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C / 
EPA 5030B 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C / 
EPA 3510C / EPA 
8270D 
EPA 5021A / EPA 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
8260C / 
EPA 3510C / EPA 
8270D 
Conventional 
Organic Matter 
Moisture Content 
(dried @ 103°C) 
pH @ 25 deg C 
BOD 
Chemical Oxygen 
Demand 
Total Organic 
Carbon 
Fluoride as F 
Chloride as Cl 
BS 1377-1:2016 
ASTM D2974-14 
BS 1377-1:2016 
ASTM D2974-14 
APHA 4500 H+B 
APHA 5210B / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
APHA 5220C / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 5310B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
 
Bromide as Br 
Sulphate as SO4 
Ammonia as N 
Conductivity 
ASTM D1179-16 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
ASTM D516-16 
APHA 4500B / APHA 
4500N H / APHA 
22nd 
Edition 2012 
APHA 2510B 
Total Petroleum 
Hydrocarbon (TPH) 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8015D 
EPA 8440 
EPA 3560 
EPA 3550C 
EPA 8015C 
Monocyclic Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 5030B 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Oxygenated 
Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 5030B 
Sulfonated 
Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Fumigants 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Halogenated Aliphatic 
Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Halogenated 
Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Trihalomethanes 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Phenolic Compounds 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA3510C 
PolyAromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Phthalate Esters 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Nitrosamines 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Nitroaromatics and 
Cyclic Ketones 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Haloethers 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Chlorinated 
Hydrocarbon 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
 
Anilines and 
Benzidines 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Polychlorinated 
Biphenyls 
EPA 8270D 
Organochlorine 
Pesticides 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Organophosphorus 
Pesticides 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Asbestos 
ASTM D7521-16 
Polarized Light 
Microscopy 
(PLM) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Pharmaceuticals and 
Personal Care 
Products 
EPA 1694 
EPA 1694 
Steroids and 
Hormones 
EPA 1698 
EPA 1698 
Brominated Diphenyl 
Ethers 
EPA 1614A 
EPA 1614A 
Pesticides 
EPA 1699 
EPA 1699 
Cation Exchange 
Capacity (CEC) 
EPA 9081 pH 7 
Ammonium Acetate 
CEC 
BACl2 Compulsive 
Exchange 
Method 
Toxicity 
Characterisitc 
Leaching Procedure 
(TCLP) 
VOCs, SVOCs, 
Chlorinated 
Pesticides and 
Herbicides, and 
Metals 
EPA 1311 
EPA 1311 
Synthetic 
Precipitation 
Leaching Procedure 
(SPLP) 
EPA 1312 
EPA 1313 
EPA 1314 
EPA 1315 
EPA 1316 
AS 4439 
EPA 1312 
EPA 1316 
AS 4439 
Bioavailability 
EPA in Vitro 
Bioaccessibility 
Assay 
Physiologically Based 
Extraction Test (PBET) 
Simplified 
Bioaccessibility 
Extraction Test (SBET) 
Relative Bioaccessibility 
Leaching Procedurer 
(RBALP) 
Solubility Bioaccessibility 
Research Consortium 
(SBRC) 
In Vitro Gastrointestinal 
Extraction Method (IVG) 
Standardised German in 
Vitro Assay (DIN) 
Dutch National Institute 
for 
Public Health and the 
Environment (RIVM) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Bioaccessibility 
Research 
Group of Europe 
(BARGE 
UBM) 
Simulator of the Human 
Intestinal Ecosystem 
(SHIME) 
Dynamic Computer-
Controlled 
Gastrointestinal Model 
(TIM) 
Hardness 
ASTM D1126-12 
 
Analytes Group 
Analytes 
Soil 
Groundwater 
Metals 
EPA 3051A 
EPA 3052 
EPA 3050B 
EPA 7471B 
APHA 3120B 
APHA 3125B 
EPA 6010D 
EPA 6020B 
EPA 7000B 
EPA 7010 
EPA 6010D 
EPA 6020B 
EPA 7000B 
EPA 7010 
EPA 3005 
EPA 7470 
APHA 3125B 
Inorganic Compounds 
Cyanide 
EPA 9010C 
EPA 9014 
APHA-4500-CN(N) 
EPA 9010C 
EPA 9014 
APHA-4500-CN(N) 
Aromatic Compounds: 
BTEX 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 5030 
EPA 3510C 
Polynuclear Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons (PAH) 
EPA 8310 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3545A 
EPA 8310 
EPA 8270D 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Chlorinated 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3501C 
Pesticides: Semi 
Volatile 
Organic Compounds 
(SVOCs) 
EPA 3545A 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3501C 
Other Pollutants: 
Volatile 
Organic Compounds 
(VOCs) 
Cyclohexanone 
Phthalates (Sum) 
Mineral Oils 
Pyridine 
Bromoform 
Tetrahydrofuran 
Tetrahydrothiophene 
EPA 5035/ EPA 8260C / 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 3545A / 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8015B 
EPA 5035 / EPA 8260C / 
EPA 3545A / EPA 8270D 
EPA 5035 / EPA 8260C / 
EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 5021A 
EPA 8270D / EPA 5021A 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C / EPA 5030B 
EPA 3510C / EPA 
8270D EPA 8015D 
EPA 5030B / EPA 
8260C 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C /EPA 5030B 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C /EPA 3510C / 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 5021A / EPA 
8260C /EPA 3510C / 
EPA 8270D 
Conventional 
Organic Matter 
Moisture Content 
(dried @ 103°C) 
pH @ 25 deg C 
BOD 
Chemical Oxygen 
Demand 
Total Organic 
Carbon 
Fluoride as F 
Chloride as Cl 
Bromide as Br 
Sulphate as SO4 
Ammonia as N 
Conductivity 
BS 1377-1:2016 
ASTM D2974-14 
BS 1377-1:2016 
ASTM D2974-14 
APHA 4500 H+B 
APHA 5210B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 5220C / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 5310B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
ASTM D1179-16 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
APHA 4110B / APHA 
22nd Edition 2012 
ASTM D516-16 
APHA 4500B / APHA 
4500N H / APHA 22nd 
Edition 2012 
APHA 2510B 
Total Petroleum 
Hydrocarbon (TPH) 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8015D 
EPA 8440 
EPA 3560 
EPA 3550C 
EPA 8015C 
Monocyclic Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 5030B 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Oxygenated 
Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 5030B 
Sulfonated Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Fumigants 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Halogenated Aliphatic 
Compounds 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Halogenated Aromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C  
EPA5030B 
Trihalomethanes 
EPA 5035 
EPA 8260C 
EPA 8260C 
EPA5030B 
Phenolic Compounds 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA3510C 
PolyAromatic 
Hydrocarbons 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Phthalate Esters 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Nitrosamines 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Nitroaromatics and 
Cyclic Ketones 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Haloethers 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Chlorinated 
Hydrocarbon 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Anilines and 
Benzidines 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Polychlorinated 
Biphenyls 
EPA 8270D 
Organochlorine 
Pesticides 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Organophosphorus 
Pesticides 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 8270D 
EPA 3510C 
Asbestos 
ASTM D7521-16 
Polarized Light Microscopy 
(PLM) 
Pharmaceuticals and 
Personal Care 
Products 
EPA 1694 
EPA 1694 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Steroids and Hormones 
EPA 1698 
EPA 1698 
Brominated Diphenyl 
Ethers 
EPA 1614A 
EPA 1614A 
Pesticides 
EPA 1699 
EPA 1699 
Cation Exchange 
Capacity (CEC) 
EPA 9081 pH 7 Ammonium 
Acetate CEC 
BACl2 Compulsive 
Exchange 
Method 
Toxicity Characterisitc 
Leaching Procedure 
(TCLP) 
VOCs, SVOCs, 
Chlorinated 
Pesticides and 
Herbicides, and 
Metals 
EPA 1311 
EPA 1311 
Synthetic Precipitation 
Leaching Procedure 
(SPLP) 
EPA 1312 
EPA 1313 
EPA 1314 
EPA 1315 
EPA 1316 
AS 4439 
EPA 1312 
EPA 1316 
AS 4439 
Bioavailability 
EPA in Vitro Bioaccessibility 
Assay 
Physiologically Based 
Extraction Test (PBET) 
Simplified Bioaccessibility 
Extraction Test (SBET) 
Relative Bioaccessibility 
Leaching Procedurer 
(RBALP) 
Solubility Bioaccessibility 
Research Consortium 
(SBRC) 
In Vitro Gastrointestinal 
Extraction Method (IVG) 
Standardised German in 
Vitro Assay (DIN) 
Dutch National Institute for 
Public Health and the 
Environment (RIVM) 
Bioaccessibility Research 
Group of Europe (BARGE 
UBM) 
Simulator of the Human 
Intestinal Ecosystem 
(SHIME) 
Dynamic Computer-
Controlled 
Gastrointestinal Model (TIM) 
Hardness 
ASTM D1126-12 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
