
Skip to content
Busan is Good : Busan is good
Information by field

Enter search term
Please enter your search term.
search
Select Language
English

GO
Login Sign up
economy
Jobs & Education
Social welfare
Women & Family
Health & Wellness
Cities , Architecture , Housing
safety
Environmental protection
Transportation & Logistics
Marine Agriculture and Fisheries
administration
Culture, Sports and Tourism

Current location of text:home City, Architecture, Housing , Architecture, Real Estate Policy, Real Estate Support Project, Land Acquisition Compensation, Land Acquisition System Guide
Open Share
Print
Bookmark
City, Architecture, Housing
News
Open submenu
Agora of urban planning
Open submenu
City building
Open submenu
Construction Safety
Open submenu
house
Open submenu
Urban planning
Open submenu
Construction and Real Estate Policy
Close submenu
Real estate support project
Close submenu
Land expropriation compensation
Close submenu
Guide to Land Acquisition System
General procedures for land acquisition
Land expropriation decision procedures
How to write a land acquisition decision application
New address information
Real Estate Information
Open submenu
Real estate complaints
Open submenu
Surveying
Open submenu
Urban design
Open submenu
Guide to Land Acquisition System
The necessity of land expropriation
The government and public institutions are implementing many public projects, such as building multipurpose dams, developing roads, railways, ports, and industrial complexes, and building housing and educational facilities.
In order to implement these public projects, land, etc. for the project are needed, so the state or public organizations first negotiate with the owners of the land, goods, etc. to acquire the land, etc. If an amicable agreement is reached, a contract is signed between the two parties to purchase the necessary land, etc. However, there are cases where a negotiated purchase is not possible, so in preparation for this, all democratic countries that recognize the private property system have a land expropriation system that allows for the compulsory acquisition of land for public projects, and Korea is also implementing this system.
Businesses that can acquire land
Public projects as specified in the Act on Acquisition and Compensation of Land, etc. for Public Projects
Business related to national defense and military affairs
Matters concerning railways, roads, airports, ports, parking lots, public garages, cargo terminals, cableways, tracks, rivers, embankments, dams, canals, waterways, sewers, sewage treatment, wastewater treatment, erosion control, windbreaks, fire prevention, tidebreaks, water proofing, water tanks, water supply and drainage channels, oil reserves and transmission, waste disposal, electricity, telecommunications, broadcasting, gas and gas observation
Businesses related to public facilities such as buildings, factories, research institutes, testing laboratories, health or cultural facilities, parks, plazas, playgrounds, markets, cemeteries, crematoriums, slaughterhouses, etc. established by the state or local governments
Projects for the establishment of schools, libraries, museums and art galleries for public interest purposes
Projects related to the construction of houses or development of residential land for the purpose of rental or transfer carried out by the state, local governments, government investment agencies, local public enterprises, or those designated by the state or local governments
Public interest projects stipulated in individual laws
In addition to projects stipulated in the Act on Acquisition and Compensation of Land, etc. for Public Projects, expropriation is also possible in cases where it is specifically permitted by individual laws.
City/County Planning Facility Project (Land Planning and Utilization Act)
Land development project (Land Development Promotion Act)
River works (River Act)
Power Development Project (Power Development Promotion Act)
School Facilities Project (School Facilities Project Promotion Act)
Industrial Complex Development Project (Industrial Location and Development Act)
Tourism Development Project (Tourism Promotion Act)
Railway Construction Project (Act on Railway Construction and Railway Facility Maintenance)
Urban Development Project (Urban Development Act)
Road construction (Road Act), etc.
General procedures for land acquisition
Public project plan decision → Land and property survey report preparation → Compensation plan announcement, inspection → Compensation amount calculation (Compensation council: mandatory for public projects with an area of ​​10m2 or more and 20 or more land owners) → Consultation → Project approval → Expropriation decision → Objection decision or lawsuit
※ According to Article 26, Paragraph 1 of the Act on Acquisition and Compensation of Land, etc. for Public Projects, project approval can be made before the creation of the land and building certificate.

Acceptance decision procedure
Application for expropriation decision → Review application for decision, etc. → Submission of opinion (landowner, etc.) → Appraisal → Expropriation decision → Sending decision → Compensation payment, deposit → Transfer of land ownership
Land expropriation decision application procedure
Work of the Land Acquisition Committee and the county/district where the land is located
Instructions for inspection by the Land Expropriation Committee: When a project implementer applies to the Land Expropriation Committee for an expropriation decision on land, etc. that has not been purchased through negotiation, the Land Expropriation Committee will send related documents to the county or district where the land for which expropriation has been requested is located and issue an instruction for inspection.
County/district inspection notice: When the county/district head receives an instruction for inspection notice from the land expropriation committee, he/she posts it on the bulletin board for 14 days and individually notifies landowners of the contents of the notice so that they can inspect it.
What Landowners Can Do
Submission of opinion: During the inspection notice period, the landowner shall inspect the application documents for expropriation and submit an opinion to the land expropriation committee or the county or district that issued the inspection notice.
The content of the statement of opinion should include any wishes or demands related to acceptance
(e.g. compensation price, request for acceptance of remaining land, missing items, other rights claims, etc.).
※ The Land Expropriation Committee will use the opinions submitted by the owner as a reference when making an appraisal, and in the event of a legal dispute, it will review and examine them before making an expropriation decision. Therefore, the opinions should be described in as much detail as possible.

Determination of compensation for acceptance
The expropriation compensation is determined by taking the arithmetic mean of the appraisal amounts (excluding the appraisers who made the appraisal at the time of negotiated purchase) assessed by two appraisal agencies with reference to the opinions submitted by the landowner. However, if the expropriation appraisal amount is lower than the amount presented by the project implementer as the negotiated price at the time of negotiated purchase, the expropriation compensation is determined at the initially negotiated price.
Compensation criteria
land
The price is determined by comparing the individual characteristics of the land to be acquired with the price determined and announced by the appraiser based on the construction site (standard land selected from all over the country as of January 1st of each year).
However, at this time, the increased land price (development profits or speculative price) due to the public project is excluded from the compensation.
건물 기타 지장물
이전비(해체 + 운반 + 복원)를 보상하는 것이 원칙이며 만약 이전비가 취득가격을 초과하거나 이전이 불가능할 때에는 취득 가격으로 보상합니다.
영업보상
공익사업의 시행으로 영업장소를 이전하거나 폐업하게 되어 영업상의 손실이 발생하는 경우에는 영업의 종류에 따라 다음기준에 의한 휴업 또는 폐업보상을 하게 됩니다.
휴업보상
휴업보상의 경우에는 4개월의 범위내에서 휴업기간 중의 영업이익을 보상하게 됩니다.
폐업보상
폐업보상의 경우에는 2년간의 영업이익을 보상하게 되나 폐업보상에 해당되는지의 여부는 소유자의 폐업의사에 따라 결정 되는 것이 아니고 다음의 요건에 해당되어야 합니다.
폐업보상대상
다른 장소에 이전하여서는 당해 영업을 할 수 없는 경우
다른 장소에서는 당해 영업의 허가를 받을 수 없는 경우
주민에게 혐오감을 주는 영업시설로서 다른 장소로 이전 하는 것이 현저히 곤란하다고 군·구의 장이 인정하는 경우
권리 및 기타보상
광업권, 어업권에 대하여는 권리소멸에 따른 보상금을 광업법과 수산업법에서 정하는 기준에 따라 토지보상금과는 별도로 지급합니다.
국유지나 공유지를 적법하게 개간하였을 때에는 개간비를 지급하고, 수확하기 전에 수용한 땅에 심은 농작물이 있을 경우 그 작물에 대하여도 보상금을 지급합니다.
사업구역밖의 보상
공익사업용지로 포함되지는 아니하였으나 사업지구 인근의 농경지(계획적으로 조성한 유실수단지나 죽림단지 포함)가 사업시행으로 인하여 하천이나 호수등에 둘러싸여 출입할 수 없는 경우에 소유자가 청구하면 공익사업시행지구안에 편입된 것으로 보아 보상을 해줄 수 있습니다.
공익사업시행지구 인근에 있는 어업에 피해가 발생한 경우 실제피해액을 확인할 수 있는 때에 그 피해에 대하여 보상합니다.
영농손실보상
사업지구내에 편입된 농지에 대하여「통계법」제3조 제4호에 따른 농가경제조사통계의 도별 농업총수입 중 농작물수입을 도별 표본농가현황 중 경지면적으로 나누어 산정한 도별 연간 농가평균 단위경작면적당 농작물총수입의 2년분을 영농손실액으로 보상합니다.
허가 등을 받지 않고 개간한 토지 및 농지가 아닌 토지를 불법으로 형질을 변경하여 경작한 토지는 보상 대상이 되지 아니합니다. 농지의 소유자와 실제의 경작자가 다른 경우로서 농지의 소유자가 당해 지역에 거주하는 농민인 경우에는 서로 협의하는 바에 따라 지급하고(협의불성립시 각 50% 지급), 농지의 소유자가 당해 지역에 거주하는 농민이 아닌 경우에는 실제의 경작자에게 지급합니다.
[실제의 경작자는 사업인정고시일, 보상계획공고일 당시의 적법한 경작자를 의미]
수용재결의 효과
사업시행자의 권리, 의무
토지등에 대한 소유권 취득
수용재결이 되어 보상금을 지급하거나 공탁하면 사업시행자는 토지수용위원회가 정한 수용시기에 그 토지등에 대한 소유권을 취득하게 되고 그 토지등에 있던 다른 권리도 소멸됩니다.
보상금 지급의무
사업시행자는 토지수용위원회에서 정한 보상금을 수용의 개시일까지 토지소유자에게 지급하여야 하고 토지소유자가 보상금 수령을 거부할 때에는 보상금을 공탁하여야 합니다. 만약 사업시행자가 수용의 개시일까지 보상금을 지급하거나 공탁하지 아니하면 그 수용 재결은 효력을 잃게 되며 보상금을 공탁할 경우에도 공탁서에 반대급부조건을 기재하였을 때에는 그 공탁은 무효가 됩니다.
토지소유자의 권리, 의무
보상금을 받을 권리
수용재결이 되면 토지소유자는 토지수용위원회에서 정한 보상금을 사업시행자로부터 받을 권리가 생깁니다.
토지등의 인도와 이전의무
사업시행자가 수용시기까지 보상금을 지급하거나 공탁을 하게 되면 토지소유자는 수용된 토지나 물건을 사업시행자에게 인도하거나 이전을 하여야 합니다.
인도·이전을 거부 할 때 사업시행자가 할 수 있는 조치
토지소유자가 수용시기가 지난 후에도 물건의 인도나 이전을 거부하면 사업시행자는 광역시장 또는 군수·구청장 등에게 행정대집행을 신청할 수 있습니다.
수용재결의 구제절차
토지수용제도는 공익사업의 시행을 위하여 부득이 둔 제도이나 수용대상 토지소유자의 권익을 보장하기 위하여 토지소유자에게도 다음과 같이 권리구제를 받을 수 있는 제도가 마련되어 있습니다.
수용재결 신청 전에 할 수 있는 일
수용재결신청청구
수용재결신청은 사업시행자만이 할 수 있도록 되어 있으므로 만약 사업시행자가 고의로 수용재결신청을 지연시킴으로써 토지소유자가 손해를 보게 되는 일이 없도록 토지소유자는 사업시행자에 대하여 조속히 수용재결신청 할 것을 청구할 수 있습니다.
재결신청청구의 절차
재결신청청구는 언제나 할 수 있는 것은 아니고 사업시행자가 제시한 보상협의 기간을 경과하여야 하며 사업시행자가 재결신청청구를 받으면 청구를 받은 날로부터 60일이내에 관할 토지수용위원회에 수용재결신청을 하여야 합니다.
재결신청청구의 효과
만약 사업시행자가 재결신청 청구를 받고도 재결신청을 지연하게 되면 재결신청 청구서를 받은 날을 기준하여 60일이 경과된 날로부터 지체된 기간에 대하여 관계 법령에서 정하는 해당이자액을 보상금에 가산하여 지급하게 됩니다.
재결신청청구의 방법
재결신청청구는 서면으로 제출하여야 하며 우편으로 제출할 때에는 배달증명우편으로 하여야 합니다.
수용재결 신청 후에 할 수 있는 일
잔여지수용청구
토지의 일부가 수용되고 남는 잔여토지(자투리땅)가 종래의 목적대로 이용이 곤란하거나 건물의 일부가 철거되어 잔여부분으로는 종래의 용도로 사용이 곤란할 때에는 토지 소유자나 건물소유자는 그 토지나 건물전부에 대한 수용을 청구할 수 있으며 토지수용위원회에서는 청구내용을 검토하여 가·부를 결정하게 됩니다.
잔여지의 수용청구는 그 일단의 토지의 일부 수용에 대한 토지수용위원회의 재결이 있기 전까지 의견서로서 제출하여야 합니다.
수용재결 후에 할 수 있는 일
이의신청 및 행정소송 방법
Landowners who object to the expropriation decision may file an objection with the Central Land Expropriation Committee within 30 days from the date of receiving the expropriation decision, and may file an administrative lawsuit with the competent court within 90 days from the date of receiving the expropriation decision, regardless of the objection.
If you wish to file an objection against the decision of the local land expropriation committee, you must submit an objection to the local land expropriation committee that made the decision, and the local land expropriation committee will then forward the submitted objection to the Central Land Expropriation Committee.
Things to keep in mind when filing an objection
An objection can be filed even after receiving compensation or a deposit, but in this case, the compensation must be received with the condition of “reserving objection and receiving it as part of the compensation” on the compensation claim form or deposit payment request form. If the compensation is received without conditions and an objection is filed, the objection will be dismissed.
Handling of objections
When an objection is filed, the Central Land Expropriation Committee will review the objection and then re-evaluate (select two other appraisal agencies that did not evaluate during the negotiated purchase and expropriation). If the re-evaluated amount is higher than the compensation determined in the expropriation decision, the compensation will be changed to the re-evaluated amount.
What you can do after the objection decision
Period for filing an administrative lawsuit and the court where the lawsuit is filed: If you are not satisfied with the decision on the objection, you may file an administrative lawsuit with the competent court within 60 days from the date of receiving the decision on the objection.
Types of administrative litigation
When the content of the objection decision is not a dispute over compensation but rather the illegality of the objection decision itself and the lawsuit is to be filed to cancel the objection decision, the lawsuit must be filed against the Central Land Expropriation Committee as the defendant.
When the content of the lawsuit regarding compensation dispute
is a dispute over an increase or decrease in compensation, the project executor (or the landowner or related party when the project executor files the lawsuit) must be the defendant, and in this case, the court will directly determine the compensation amount.
Administrative litigation can also be filed by the project executor, but if the project executor loses, the relevant interest amount stipulated in the relevant laws for the litigation period must be added to the compensation and paid to the landowner.
Page satisfaction survey and data management department
Data Management Department
Construction Administration Department
051-888-2691
Recent Updates
2024-09-04

Are you satisfied with the information provided on this page?Average: 0 points Participation: 0 people
 Very satisfied content commonly dissatisfaction Very dissatisfied
Comments are a space for free exchange of opinions, so for reports, suggestions, proposals, etc. to Busan City that require a response or improvement, please use Busan Civil Complaint 120 - Civil Complaint Application . When entering content, please be careful not to expose personal information such as your resident registration number or contact information.

Commercial advertisements, vulgar expressions, political content, exposure of personal information, etc. may be deleted without prior notice.Go to Busan Civil Affairs 120

If you have any suggestions or requests for answers regarding city administration, please use the Busan Civil Complaint 120 Civil Complaint Application .

Select a business site
Business site
 Shortcut Select a related site
Related Sites
 ShortcutInstagramtweezerFacebookNaver BlogKakao StorySea TVYouTube ChannelBusan English Broadcasting Foundation
BUSAN METROPOLITAN CITY	
Busan City 120 Call Center (Area Code 051)

Weekdays 08:30 ~ 18:30
Night and public holidays shift to duty room

(Woo 47545) 1001 Jungang-daero, Yeonje-gu, Busan (Yeonsan-dong)

Directions to City Hall Parking Information Usage Information
Copyright © Busan Metropolitan City. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Copyright Protection Policy
privacy policy
Administrative Service Charter
Viewer Download
Ministry of Science and ICT WEB ACCESSIBILITY Mark (Web Accessibility Quality Certification Mark)
TOP