 
Commonwealth 
of Australia 
Gazette 
Published by the Commonwealth of Australia 
GOVERNMENT NOTICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 
 
Notice under section 341JI 
 
INCLUSION IN THE COMMONWEALTH HERITAGE LIST  
OF LAKE BURLEY GRIFFIN AND ADJACENT LANDS 
 
 
I, Sussan Ley, Minister for the Environment, having considered in relation to the place and 
the Commonwealth Heritage values described in the Schedule of this instrument: 
 
(a)  
the Australian Heritage Council's assessment whether the assessed place meets 
any of the Commonwealth Heritage criteria; and 
 
(b)  
the comments given to the Council under sections 341JF and 341JG of the 
Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999; and  
 
being satisfied that the place described in the Schedule has the Commonwealth Heritage 
values specified in the Schedule, pursuant to section 341JI of the Environment Protection 
and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999, include the place and the specified 
Commonwealth Heritage values in the Commonwealth Heritage List. 
 
 
 
Dated:  8/4/22 
 
 
Sussan Ley 
……………………………………………. 
Sussan Ley 
Minister for the Environment 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
2 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY 
Australian Capital Territory 
 
 
NAME: Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands  
 
BOUNDARY:  
About 6640ha, Canberra, comprising the following: 
1. Lake Burley Griffin, extending to the outside walls where these exist or otherwise to a line drawn at the normal 
lake level, except that the line shall be drawn across the entrance to Lake Burley Griffin of the Molonglo 
River, Jerrabomberra Creek and Sullivans Creek. All islands within Lake Burley Griffin are included except 
for Aspen Island and the Carillon. 
2. Scrivener Dam, Commonwealth Bridge and Kings Avenue Bridge. 
3. Comprising Blocks 1, 3, 4, 5 Section 54 Parkes; Block 2 Section 38 Barton; Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 Section 89 Acton; 
Block 1 Section 126 Yarralumla; Block 1 Section 129 Yarralumla; Block 1432 Central Canberra District. 
4. Stirling Ridge and Attunga Point Yarralumla comprising Block 3 Section 128, Block 4 Section 22, Block 13 
Section 108 Yarralumla. 
5. Yarramundi Point comprising Block 1339, 1299, 1338, 1300, 1343 Canberra Central District. 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's 
importance in the 
course, or pattern, 
of Australia's 
natural or cultural 
history. 
The Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has significant historic heritage 
value. Characteristics of the place with significant historic value include the 
following. 
From the early days of Canberra’s establishment as the national capital, the gradual 
formation of Lake Burley Griffin marked major milestones in the capital city’s 
creation. As a substantial national project, the construction and completion of Lake 
Burley Griffin demonstrates the push for national development during the years 
immediately after Federation and before the First World War, and again after the 
Second World War, under the Menzies government.  
Lake Burley Griffin is associated with the original city competition brief for the 
design of Canberra. Its final form at completion is consistent with the original guiding 
intentions set out in the competition brief. This link with the original brief connects us 
to the aspirations and vision Australians had for Federation and its capital city at the 
beginning of the twentieth century.  
The Lake’s design and form reflect the story of its development including the tensions 
between designers, administrators and politicians in the development of the capital.  
The Lake’s design reflects the influence of three major urban design movements 
including the City Beautiful movement, the Garden City movement and International 
Modernism. The use of City Beautiful and Garden City theories and ideas is reflected 
in the use and design of the lake to fulfill aesthetic, open space and outdoor recreation 
functions. The lake also forms part of the water axis and has been designed in parts to 
include symbolic, ceremonial, formal and informal and active and passive recreation 
space. The design influences of International Modernism can be seen in the 
engineering works within the place including the fish belly flap gates of Scrivener 
Dam, Commonwealth Avenue Bridge and Kings Avenue Bridge.  
The central area of Lake Burley Griffin provides an aesthetic and symbolic backdrop 
for many military and civil memorials along its foreshore. National events and 
ceremonies have and continue to be staged around, near and over the lake because of 
its beauty and function within the central national area.   
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
3 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
Stirling Park has a layered collection of Indigenous, pastoral and early capital city 
features including Aboriginal stone artefacts and arrangements, a scarred tree, old 
routes and tracks, exotic plantings, remnant mining sites, campsite and homestead 
sites and the remaining remnant structures of the former Westlake workers settlement. 
Westlake provided accommodation for early Canberra builders and tradesmen 
working on the construction of buildings like Old Parliament House, East Block, 
West Block and Hotel Canberra. The remnant layout of the Westlake settlement is 
still legible in the landscape demonstrating the living conditions of those early 
workers and their families who came to Canberra as builders and tradesmen. Over 
time this settlement became a strong community remembered today by former 
residents and their families. 
Roman Cypress Hill is a significant historic planting area. The remnant historic 
planting of Cupressus sempervirens was planted in 1919–1921 when the first 
planning and layout for Griffin’s Canberra was being undertaken. Charles Weston’s 
work to establish the landscape of the city is also partly demonstrated here. Today it is 
a remnant of Griffin’s plan for the treatment of the western horizon. Only part of the 
hill planting remains in its original setting, the remaining planting area is located 
across the highway to the west.  
The Lindsay Pryor Arboretum is associated with the history of urban landscaping and 
city horticulture in Canberra. The historic planting in the arboretum area demonstrates 
some of Pryor’s experimental work on the growth of a variety of tree species for 
potential use in the city’s parks and streets. The planting and surrounding water areas 
also form part of the attractive parkland and water views from Government House. 
Features which express the significant historic values of the place include, but are not 
limited to: the lake as a whole including its edge treatments, the Captain Cook Water 
Jet, the Commonwealth and Kings Avenue bridges, Scrivener Dam, lake islands, the 
Lake’s contribution to the geometry of Griffin’s plan for Canberra; the remnant 
historic plantings of Cupressus sempervirens trees located on part of the hill known as 
Roman Cypress Hill; the remnant historic plantings within the Lindsay Pryor 
Arboretum; the site and remnant structures of the former Westlake settlement; the No 
1 sewer vent in Stirling Park and the layered historic landscape of Stirling Park 
representing the Indigenous, pastoral and early capital city periods of Canberra.  
 
(b) 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's 
possession of 
uncommon, rare or 
endangered aspects 
of Australia's 
natural or cultural 
history. 
 
The Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has significant rarity value 
because of the place’s possession of uncommon, rare and endangered aspects of 
Australia’s natural and cultural history. These rare aspects of the place are described 
below. 
City Beautiful and Garden City exemplar 
Lake Burley Griffin is an important exemplar design site which can demonstrate 
design and planning devices characteristic of the two most important town planning 
movements of the twentieth century; the City Beautiful and Garden City movements. 
Canberra is one of the few planned twentieth century cities in Australia and in the 
world. The city’s national capital function provided planners and designers, like 
Griffin, with an opportunity to use their best and most innovative planning ideas 
drawing from the town planning practices of their time.  
In particular, the lake forms part of the water axis which Griffin used to arrange city 
elements and connect surrounding natural features. The grand scale of lake vistas 
along the water axis and in other areas gifts the National Triangle and city a sense of 
grandeur and beauty. The lake overall, also provides long water vistas which feature 
the surrounding, sometimes snow covered, Brindabella Mountains. Viewed from high 
vantage points like Black Mountain, Mt Ainslie and Red Hill, the lake is a distinctive 
character element providing a lake setting for its urban, residential and national 
capital activities and spaces. The lake also integrates the northern and southern sides 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
of the central city. The formal areas of the lake also provide a water setting for 
national institutions which are showcased on its foreshore. 
The use of visual follies like the lake’s islands, the National Carillon and the Captain 
Cook Memorial [water] Jet are examples of visual devices informed by the City 
Beautiful movement. 
From a Garden City perspective, the lake provides a variety of recreation spaces and 
is itself a huge open space in the middle of the central city area of Canberra. The lake 
area is almost twice the size of Central Park in New York. Stirling Park and 
Yarrumundi Reach are part of an extensive and generous system of parks and open 
space along the lake’s foreshore. The treatment of Roman Cypress Hill also 
demonstrates the careful management of visual experiences which were planned 
deliberately in a dynamic way to enhance the visual experience of the city and 
National Triangle. 
The features which express these rarity values include but are not limited to the lake 
as a whole including its edge treatments, the Captain Cook Memorial Jet, the lake’s 
two bridges, Scrivener Dam, lake islands, the lake’s contribution to the realisation of 
the water axis, the Roman Cypress Hill planting, the use allocation of Stirling Park 
and Yarramundi reach as parkland, the long uninterrupted lake vistas and views (from 
the Lake) of the Brindabella Mountains and the many long water vistas afforded from 
the foreshore and for those using the lake for boating. 
Engineering techniques 
The ‘fish-belly’ flap gates of Scrivener Dam enable the lake’s water levels to be 
controlled to a precise degree. The technology identified and built at Scrivener Dam 
(fish-belly-flap gates) is rare in Australia and represents the development of standards 
in hydrology and dam engineering in its time. 
Natural areas 
The large surviving grassy woodland area, now modified to grassland, at Yarramundi 
Reach displays important characteristics of the remnant Natural Temperate Grassland 
ecological community. This ecological community is recognised at a territory and 
national level as a threatened ecological community. The grassland at Yarramundi 
Reach provides habitat for the Striped Legless Lizard which is recognised at a 
territory and national level as a threatened species and the Perunga Grasshopper, also 
recognised as a threatened species.  
The White Box-Yellow Box-Blakely’s Red Gum Grassy Woodland ecological 
community of Stirling Park is a recognised threatened ecological community. This 
community provides habitat for another threatened species, the Button Wrinklewort, 
and may provide suitable habitat for the vulnerable Gang-gang Cockatoo and Superb 
Parrot.  
Both the remnant Natural Temperate Grassland of Yarramundi Reach and the derived 
native grassland in the western section of Stirling Park may also provide important 
habitat for the critically endangered Golden Sun Moth.  
Wetland environments at Yarramundi Inlet, Acacia Inlet and Warrina Inlet, 
comprising reed beds, fringing terrestrial vegetation and open water, provide habitat 
for a diverse population of waterfowl and land birds. Latham’s Snipe, the Common 
Greenshank, the Red-necked Stint and the Sharp-tailed Sandpiper, listed migratory 
wetland species, are recorded from these wetlands. Other locally rare species recorded 
here include the Greater Crested Grebe, the Little Bittern, the Little Grassbird and the 
Musk Duck.  
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
5 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
The wider aquatic ecosystem of the lake provides habitat for the threatened Murray 
Cod.  
Below the waters and along the shoreline of the lake are occurrences of limestone, 
including a limestone cave; rare examples of a feature from which the original post-
contact settlement name for the Canberra locality, the ‘Limestone Plains,’ is derived. 
Early descriptions of the area often refer to limestone, but most examples have since 
been either built on or submerged under the lake.  
The features which express the natural rarity values include but are not limited to the 
whole area of designated grassland on Yarramundi Reach; the White Box-Yellow 
Box-Blakely’s Red Gum Grassy Woodland community on the slopes of Stirling 
Ridge; the lake habitat of the Murray Cod comprising the waterbody, aquatic 
vegetation and lake bed; the grassland habitat of the Striped Legless Lizard, Perunga 
Grasshopper and Golden Sun Moth, which includes the whole area of designated 
grassland on Yarramundi Reach and the western section of Stirling Park; the habitat 
of the Button Wrinklewort which includes the upper slopes of the central and western 
parts of Stirling Park; the wetland bird habitats along the foreshores and shallows of 
the two inlets along Yarramundi Reach and the one inlet to the east of Government 
House; the Acacia Inlet wetland at the northern end of Yarramundi Reach, extending 
south along the reach and including the majority of reed beds along the Reach 
foreshores, and the limestone formations occurring both above and below the surface 
of the lake. 
 
(c) 
the place has 
heritage value 
because of the 
place's potential to 
yield information 
that will contribute 
to an understanding 
of Australia's 
natural or cultural 
history 
The Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has significant research value 
because of the place’s potential to yield information that will contribute to an 
understanding of Australia’s history and practice of urban planning, architecture and 
landscape architecture. Indigenous sites and natural sites are also able to yield 
important information. Specific areas or characteristics able to yield information are 
described below. 
Design and planning studies 
Lake Burley Griffin and its many ‘design layers’ is a source of information about key 
theories, practices and histories associated with urban planning, architecture and 
landscape architecture. Evidence of the work of key practitioners including Walter 
Burley Griffin, Marion Mahoney, John Sulman, Charles Weston, Lindsay Pryor, Sir 
William Holford, Dame Sylvia Crowe, Richard Clough, Peter Harrison, Trevor 
Gibson, and John Overall are also evident and are a valuable historic resource for 
further study and examination. The fish belly flap gates of Scrivener Dam and the two 
major bridges also provide the opportunity for further research and teaching potential 
associated with engineering practice and design technologies.  
The features which express these significant historic research values include but are 
not limited to Lake Burley Griffin and its designed and planned features associated 
with the design practitioners mentioned above. 
Natural Science 
The occurrence of threatened species in the Yarramundi grasslands (particularly the 
Striped Legless Lizard and Perunga Grasshopper) and at Stirling Park (Button 
Wrinklewort), and the ecological communities themselves (Natural Temperate 
Grassland and White Box-Yellow Box-Blakely’s Red Gum Grassy Woodland) 
provide opportunities for ecological research on habitat and population relationships. 
The lake’s wetlands offer similar opportunities for the study of resident and migratory 
birds. The freshwater ecosystems of the wider lake also provide research 
opportunities for the study of aquatic ecosystems. This research would be particularly 
focused within the context of artificially impounded water bodies in urban 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
6 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
environments. 
The features which express these significant natural heritage research values include 
the whole area of designated grassland on Yarramundi Reach, the upper slopes of the 
central and western parts of Stirling Park and the lake waters, including the small 
wetland pockets near and around Yarramundi Reach. 
Indigenous history 
Indigenous sites within the place have the potential to reveal evidence of traditional 
lifeways and the economy of Indigenous people in the Canberra region prior to 
European settlement. The features which express these significant Indigenous 
research values include the Indigenous sites (12) at Yarramundi Reach and Stirling 
Park. 
 
(d) 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's 
importance in 
demonstrating the 
principal 
characteristics of: a 
class of Australia's 
natural or cultural 
places; or a class of 
Australia's natural 
or cultural 
environments 
The Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has important representative 
values. The aspects or characteristics of the place which have representative value are 
as follows.  
 
City Beautiful Design exemplar 
 
The design and final form of Lake Burley Griffin demonstrate key aspects of 
important design philosophies and styles from the early twentieth century, including 
the City Beautiful Movement and the Garden City Movement. The influence of 
International Modernism from the mid- twentieth century is also evident. Lake Burley 
Griffin is representative of a small group of designed urban environments in Australia 
containing areas of water used primarily for ornamental purposes and is one of the 
largest and best-known examples.  
 
Natural areas 
 
Some areas within the place possess remnant vegetation. Collectively these areas 
represent the characteristics of the pre-1820s natural environment. These areas 
include: 
 
adjacent to Yarramundi Inlet there is a surviving individual Eucalyptus 
viminalis representing the original Molonglo River riparian forest. This tree 
is the sole indicator of the past riparian forest in the study area;  
 
small remnants of the Natural Temperate Grassland community which exist 
in patches between Alexandria Drive and the lake foreshore from Blue Gum 
Point to Attunga Point. These areas represent remnant examples of the pre-
1820s vegetation; 
 
a large grassy woodland area, now modified to grassland, located at 
Yarramundi Reach. This area displays the significant characteristics of the 
Natural Temperate Grassland community; 
 
a large remnant of the original White Box-Yellow Box-Blakely’s Red Gum 
Grassy Woodland on the slopes of Stirling Ridge in Stirling Park;  
 
a remnant eucalypt dry open forest, characteristic of north and west facing 
slopes in the ACT, located on the eastern ridge of Stirling Park; and   
 
a re-growth Snow Gum stand at the northern end of Yarramundi Reach. This 
stand is characteristic of the natural woodland/forest transition in the 
southern tablelands.  
The features which express these significant representative values include but are not 
limited to Lake Burley Griffin surrounds and the natural features described above.  
 
(e)  
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has important aesthetic characteristics 
valued by: 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
7 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
the place's 
importance in 
exhibiting 
particular aesthetic 
characteristics 
valued by a 
community or 
cultural group 
For Australians 
Lake Burley Griffin is recognised as a beautiful feature of Canberra. In particular the 
Lake provides an attractive water setting for national institutions, lakeside parklands 
and lakeside memorials. Lake Burley Griffin is also featured in many promotions of 
Canberra to the extent that it has become a landmark and signature element of the city 
and its presentation as the capital of Australia.  
For the Canberra Community  
Lake Burley Griffin is appreciated by Canberrans as a beautiful part of their city. Its 
visual appeal during the day and night is appreciated as an essential part of their city 
and as a ‘signature’ element of Canberra as a place. Some particular characteristics 
appreciated by Canberrans include the presence of large areas of water, the reflections 
and seasonal variations on the water surface, the formal water basins near the national 
institutions and Parliament buildings and the more natural, quieter areas of the lake 
like Yarramundi Reach. Views to the water are also valued because of the ‘calm 
presence’ it provides in an individual’s experience of the nearby city area.  
The features which express these aesthetic values include but are not limited to the 
large size and varied shape of the lake; the lake’s quiet and peaceful areas 
(particularly the secluded areas in the lower reaches); the water body and surface of 
the lake (including the maintenance of its water level); and the reflective qualities of 
the water.  
 
(f) 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's 
importance in 
demonstrating a 
high degree of 
creative or 
technical 
achievement at a 
particular period 
The lake’s design, development and final completion is considered by experts to be an 
achievement of creative genius and demonstrates a high level of technical engineering 
and urban design achievement. This high level of achievement is demonstrated by the 
following aspects or characteristics of the place.  
Lake Burley Griffin is an essential element of the Griffin plan for the capital city of 
Canberra. Its design has been purposefully developed to reflect Canberra’s function 
and status as the nation’s capital. The lake is used as a unifying design element and 
incorporates key aesthetic and functional roles within the overall plan for the city.  
The design of Lake Burley Griffin strongly reflects two key periods of creative and 
technical accomplishment. In the early period of the lake’s development the lake’s 
design is associated with the City Beautiful and Garden City town planning 
movements. Work undertaken from the 1950s is associated with International 
Modernism. The overall form of the lake is most strongly associated with its original 
conception set out in the city design competition brief. The lake’s edge treatments and 
details, such as islands, are more reflective of later periods of construction.  
The lake’s form also reflects the way the designers made use of the city site and the 
Molonglo River’s features. West Lake, in particular, is evidence of the original ‘river’ 
form of the city site. The basins are evidence of the former river flood plain as well as 
evidence of the ancient Molonglo Lake.  
The final form of the lake closely resembles Griffin’s 1918 plan with the exception of 
the deletion of East Lake. This similarity provides evidence of the essential integrity 
of the plan for the lake as conceptually developed by Griffin while he was in 
Canberra. The design of the lake includes formal and informal parts and reflects some 
of Griffin’s geometric devices. The lake’s integration of government and civic 
functions (on its opposite banks) has also been retained, although the intensity of the 
planned relationship has been weakened in implementation.  
The design of Lake Burley Griffin and Associated Lands provides evidence of 
tensions over time between Griffin’s primarily City Beautiful plan and the interplay 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
8 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
of Garden City ideas and the influence of Holford and the National Capital 
Development Commission.  
Lake Burley Griffin demonstrates a number of urban design approaches and styles. 
These occur within a designed and richly symbolic environment which is absent in 
many other more contemporary urban places. This richness demonstrates a 
sophisticated design approach to the urban design of the lake and its surroundings. 
Some key features of this include: the link between the axes and landscape features; 
the inclusion of formal and informal lake areas; the purposeful links with both close 
and distant topography; the relationship between vertical and horizontal elements 
(like the National Carillon and the Captain Cook Memorial Jet); the mirroring of 
foreshore and surrounding natural features, the lake’s provision of water frontage for 
national institutions; the relationship between areas of distinctive character planting 
(around the lake) which makes use of seasonal colour and texture and the lake’s 
contribution to the presentation of the city area as a city in a natural landscape.  
Lake Burley Griffin also demonstrates a high degree of technical achievement in 
engineering. The construction of the two bridges and Scrivener Dam were projects 
which demonstrated high levels of achievement in their time.  
The features which express these values include but are not limited to the lake as a 
whole, Scrivener Dam, Commonwealth and Kings Avenue bridges, the islands within 
the lake and the lake’s function as part of the water axis. 
 
(g) 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's strong or 
special association 
with a particular 
community or 
cultural group for 
social, cultural or 
spiritual reasons 
Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place is important to various communities as 
a landmark and as a signature element of Canberra. It also acts as an important 
reference point in the construction of Canberra’s place identity. The use of the lake 
has also created strong associations with recreation users like rowers, small watercraft 
users and walkers. Special associations with the Australian community are also 
present. 
For Australians  
Lake Burley Griffin plays an important role in representing the image of Canberra to 
the nation and potentially internationally. Its landmark value as part of the national 
capital’s landscape is well recognised and widely valued. For Australians, especially 
those who have visited Canberra, Lake Burley Griffin is a well-recognised symbol of 
Canberra, forming the central focus of the national capital designed landscape. The 
lake is also valued as a place which provides an attractive setting for visitors walking 
or driving through the city and around key national institutions.  
For the Canberra Community  
Lake Burley Griffin is highly valued by the Canberra community as an important and 
essential part of Canberra. The lake contributes significantly to Canberra’s place 
identity and provides a range of recreation opportunities for all Canberrans. The lake 
also connects Canberrans to Canberra’s function and purpose as the nation’s capital as 
the lake is a central design element in the construction of the national capital. 
Canberrans are proud of the lake as a significant construction achievement. The 
unification of two parts of the city at completion of the lake is remembered. 
Lake Burley Griffin is highly valued by the Canberra community as an important 
community gathering place which is also used as a setting for large public events. The 
lake remains a place which has been experienced and enjoyed by Canberrans for over 
35 years for leisure and as a visual delight.  
Lake Burley Griffin is highly valued by the Canberra community as a place that 
represents the realisation of the Griffin design for Canberra. The lake also creates a 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
9 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
setting for community celebration and engagement. Lake Burley Griffin is also highly 
valued by the Canberra community as a place of personal memory and experience.  
The Canberra community has a strong attachment to the lake as a whole, as well as to 
a range of individual places on and around the lake. These values are shared across 
the community, irrespective of the nature, length and frequency of association.  
The features which express these social values include but are not limited to, the 
whole of Lake Burley Griffin.  
 
(h) 
the place has 
significant heritage 
value because of 
the place's special 
association with the 
life or works of a 
person, or group of 
persons, of 
importance in 
Australia's natural 
or cultural history 
Lake Burley Griffin and Adjacent Lands place has significant associations with 
people of importance in Canberra’s history of development. These associations 
include the following. 
Important people involved with the creative and technical aspects of the design and 
construction of Lake Burley Griffin include Walter Burley Griffin, Marion Mahony 
Griffin, Charles Scrivener, Sir William Holford, Dame Sylvia Crowe, Richard Clough 
and the National Capital Development Commission (NCDC). Lake Burley Griffin 
also has strong associations with Sir Robert Menzies who played pivotal role in the 
implementation of the lake’s construction. His support is associated with the final 
push towards the lake’s completion. 
Walter Burley Griffin is an important figure in Australia’s cultural history because of 
his contribution to the design of Canberra as Australia’s capital city. In recognition of 
his contribution Lake Burley Griffin has been named in appreciation of his work. 
Marion Mahony Griffin worked with Walter Burley Griffin on the design for 
Canberra. Her perspective drawings were a brilliant representation of the ideas 
presented in the competition drawings for Canberra. In recognition of her contribution 
the Marion Mahony Griffin view at Mt Ainslie has been named in appreciation of her 
work.  
Charles Scrivener surveyed and recommended the Canberra site for Australia’s 
capital city. He also made recommendations regarding the suitability of this site for 
ornamental waters which pointed to the eventual creation of Lake Burley Griffin. 
British planner, William Holford, was engaged by the Menzies Government to 
recommend a way forward for the construction of Lake Burley Griffin. Holford did 
extensive work on the design of Lake Burley Griffin and its two bridges. 
Sylvia Crowe and Richard Clough were prominent landscape architects involved with 
the landscape development and planting works around the lake, and, in particular, of 
Commonwealth Park.   
The experimental planting plots within the Lindsay Pryor Arboretum are strongly 
associated with the pioneering and extensive work planned and carried out by Lindsay 
Pryor and his team in the landscaping of the city scape of Canberra.  
Many professions have been involved in planning, design and construction of Lake 
Burley Griffin including town planners, architects, landscape architects, engineers and 
surveyors. In the case of landscape architects and town planners in Australia, the 
growth of these professions in Australia has a strong association with Lake Burley 
Griffin and some of the adjacent lands within the place.  
The features which express these values include but are not limited to: the lake as a 
whole, including all its designed and engineered elements; the Roman Cypress Hill 
stand of Cupressus sempervirens and Pryor’s surviving trial plantings covering the 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
10 
 
 
Criterion 
Values 
southern portions of Yarramundi Reach.  
 
 
Government Notices Gazette C2022G00386  09/05/2022

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
