Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
1 INTRODUCTION
(1) Basic features of Singapore building and construction law
26.1.1 Building and construction law in Singapore shares common features with its equivalent in other
common law jurisdictions. Contracts between participants within the building and construction
industry are typically in standard form.
26.1.2 The terms and conditions of standard form contracts used in Singapore are not identical to
international contracts, but follow a similar basic structure.
(2) Relevant areas of law: contract, tort and statutes
26.1.3 Aside from the law of contract, the law of torts also has a significant impact on the rights and
liabilities of parties in the building and construction industry.
26.1.4 Statutes and regulations also govern the conduct of the industry and give expression to public
policy considerations. For instance, as with many of the Commonwealth jurisdictions, Singapore has
introduced legislation to govern the substantive rights of parties in terms of payments, and mandatory
dispute resolution in support of the right to timely payment.
2 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS IN SINGAPORE
A. Types of contractual arrangements
26.2.1 Building and construction contracts in Singapore have been shaped by both colonial and
indigenous arrangements and practices. There are significant dierences between local and
international standard form contracts; however, the organisational structure of the local standard
form and the contractual arrangements between parties fall into internationally recognisable
categories, namely:
• “traditional” contracts;
• “design and build” contracts; and
• traditional contracts
(1) Traditional contracts
(i) Appointment
26.2.2 In the traditional system of contracting, the owner or developer of an intended project first
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
1 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
engages someone to administer the contract. For a building project, this is typically the architect.
Other professionals, such as the quantity surveyor, structural engineer, and the mechanical and
electrical engineers are then appointed. Contracts are entered into between the employer and these
consultants. Popular standard form contracts for the appointment of:
• architects: Singapore Institute of Architects (“SIA”) Conditions of Appointment (containing the
Scale of Professional Charges) ; and
• engineers: Association of Consulting Engineers (“ACES”)
(ii) Design
26.2.3 The architect or engineer then prepares a design. The architect (sometimes in collaboration
with other consultants) prepares documentation in suicient detail to enable contractors to submit
competitive tenders, such as:
• drawings;
• specifications;
• bills of quantities; and
• other documentation constituting contract documents.
(iii) Tender, design and /or construction
26.2.4 The successful tenderer is awarded the contract. In the course of construction, the design
function is usually le in the hands of the consultants. There will not be any competitive design
submitted by contractors.
(iv) Contract arrangements
26.2.5 Contract arrangements between parties in a “traditional” system are generally based on a
standard form contract. For the construction of buildings, the most popular forms include standard
forms and their derivatives by:
• The SIA (currently 2016 Ed.) ;
• The Royal Institute of British Architects (“RIBA”) ; and
• The Joint Contracts Tribunal (“JCT”).
26.2.6 The public sector has its own set of standard forms for the traditional system, the Public Sector
Standard Conditions of Contract for Construction Works (PSSCOC, currently in its 7th Ed (2014)).
(2) Design and build contracts
26.2.7 In recent years, the international and local trend has been to move away from the “traditional
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
2 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
system” to alternative contract arrangements. For instance, “design and build” contracts have
increased in popularity.
26.2.8 Under a design and build contract, the contractor agrees to accept all responsibility for the
structure he constructs. In addition to his usual obligations for the completed work, he also agrees to
accept obligations relating to design. Whether a construction contract is a “design and build” contract
is a matter of interpretation of the terms: Goh Eng Lee Andy v Yeo Jin Know [2016] 4 SLR 292. It
necessarily operates as a lump sum contract in that a contractor has to do everything necessary to
achieve what he contracted to do without an adjustment in price.  A design and build contractor would
not be able to seek additional payment unless he can show that the works undertaken were
substantially dierent from the original design or that the additional expenses were incurred because
of the employer’s breach.
(i) Local standard forms
26.2.9 To accommodate such new arrangements, the following local standard forms are available:
• For the public sector: Public Sector Standard Conditions of Contract (“PSSCOC”) for Design
and Build.
• Real Estate Developer’s Association, Singapore (“REDAS”) Design and Build Conditions of
Contract.
• The new SIA Building Contract 2016 (Design and Build).
(ii) International standard forms
26.2.10 International standard forms are also available:
• FIDIC Suite of Contracts that include, the “Yellow Book” (Conditions of Contract for Plant and
Design-Build), the “Orange Book” (Conditions of Contract for Design-Build and Turnkey), “the
Silver Book” (Conditions of Contract for EPC/Turnkey Projects) and DOB Contract (Conditions
of Contract for Design, Build and Operate Projects).
• JCT Suite of Standard Form Contracts, the latest of which is the 2005 series (with amendments
in 2009 and 2011), for use in the construction of petrochemical and pharmaceutical facilities
involving the main contractor in the design of the facilities and the procurement of equipment
and machinery, bespoke Engineering Procurement and Construction (“EPC”) contracts are
commonly used.
B. Types of contracts and related contract documents
(1) Standard form contracts
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
3 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.2.11 Standard form contracts usually contain provisions relating to certification of payment,
variations, and defective work within its general terms and conditions which usually has priority over
any other document forming part of the contract. The standardisation of such terms and conditions
makes the administration of such contracts much easier. In addition, the evolution of changes
resulting from case law will be more easily identifiable in standard form contracts.
(2) Non-standard form contracts
26.2.12 In contrast, the general terms and conditions of non-standard form contracts, may be less
easily identifiable and may require greater scrutiny for contract administration purposes. In the
absence of a priority of documents clause, ambiguities could be diicult to resolve and the contra
proferentem rule would apply against the contract originator.
(3) Related documents
26.2.13 Disputes could occur if the contract is contained in or evidenced by the main contract together
with drawings, specifications, bills of quantities, exchanges of correspondence, and quotations. It may
be contested as to which related documents form part of the contract: Ohbayashi-Gumi Ltd v Kian
Hong Holdings Pte Ltd [1987] SLR 94; [1987] 2 MLJ 110, CA). Generally, specially draed provisions or
contract documents will take precedence over the printed terms and conditions: Ser Kim Koi v GTMS
Construction Pte Ltd [2016] 3 SLR 51. Related documents are either admissible as evidence in the
interpretation of contracts, or as express terms. Where a document was signed by the parties and was
draed specifically to govern the relationship between the parties to a subcontract, it was held that
the terms of another document, taken from the main contract to which the subcontractor was not a
party, could not have been intended to supersede it: Grouteam Pte Ltd v UES Holdings Pte Ltd [2016] 5
SLR 1011.
(i) Admissibility of extrinsic evidence in the interpretation of contracts
26.2.14 In Zurich Insurance (Singapore) Pte Ltd v B-Gold Interior Design & Construction Pte Ltd [2008] 3
SLR 1029 (“Zurich Insurance”), the Court of Appeal held that s 94(f) of the Evidence Act is “a
fundamental rule of interpretation” and governs contractual interpretation in Singapore. S 94(f) allows
extrinsic evidence to be admitted in the contextual interpretation of contracts, if the evidence:
• does not contradict, vary, add to or subtract from the contract’s terms;
• is relevant, in that it would aect the way in which the language of the document would be
understood by a reasonable man;
• is reasonably available to all contracting parties; and
• relates to a clear and obvious context.
However, the plain language of the contract must be ambiguous or absurd, before the Court is allowed
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
4 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
to interpret the contract dierently from that demanded by its plain language.
(ii) As an express term
26.2.15 Aside from written documents, an express term may also be found in diagrams and plans.
In Sheng Siong Supermarket Pte Ltd v Carilla Pte Ltd [2011] 4 SLR 1094, a dispute arose as to whether a
precondition to the tenancy agreement was that permission would be granted for the premises
concerned to be used as a supermarket.
26.2.16 The High Court decided in favour of Sheng Siong. It found that a plan of the premises annexed
to the final tenancy agreement showed a supermarket, and therefore constituted an “express
provision” in support of such a precondition.
3 ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND SURVEYORS
26.3.1 In Singapore, in order to comply with the requirements of planning and building legislation, the
appointment of a `qualified person´ by the employer is oen necessary (Building Control Act, Cap 29,
s 6(3). The qualified person must be a registered architect or a professional engineer. The qualified
person has statutory obligations that he must properly discharge.
A. Architects
(1) Regulated by the Architects Act
26.3.2 Architects in Singapore are regulated by the Architects Act, Cap 12, While the Architects Act does
not define who is an architect, “architectural services” are defined under s 2(b) to include selling or
supplying for gain or reward any architectural plan, drawing, tracing or the like for use in the
construction, enlargement or alteration of any building or part thereof.
(2) Registered architect
26.3.3 Under s 10(1), no one can "draw or prepare any architectural plan, drawing, tracing, design,
specification or other document intended to govern the construction, enlargement or alteration of any
building or part thereof in Singapore" unless he is a registered architect with a practising certificate or
unless he is someone working under the direction or supervision of such an architect. Under s 10(3),
the designation “architect” or any of its derivatives cannot be used by anyone unless he is a registered
architect.
(3) Board of Architects
26.3.4 A register of architects is kept and maintained by the Board of Architects (see also s 8). The
Board is also responsible for the issuance of practising certificates and exercises overall control over
the profession. It has power to conduct disciplinary proceedings and may cancel the registration of
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
5 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
any registered architect or suspend him from practice in specified circumstances.
(4) Other professional bodies
26.3.5 In addition to registration, most architects are also members of professional bodies. In
Singapore, the main body is the Singapore Institute of Architects (SIA) (http://sia.org.sg/). Besides
membership of the SIA, architects educated abroad are oen also members of foreign professional
bodies like the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) for those educated in the United Kingdom
B. Engineers
(1) Regulated by the Professional Engineers Act
26.3.6 In Singapore, engineers are regulated by the Professional Engineers Act, Cap 253. There are no
restrictions in Singapore against anyone describing himself as an “engineer”. Under s 2 of the Act,
“professional engineering services” and “professional engineering work” are defined; however, there is
no definition of the term “engineer” or “professional engineer” in the Act.
(2) Registered engineer
26.3.7 Nonetheless, a person must be properly registered under the Act before he is entitled to call
himself a “professional engineer”, or use the word “engineer” or the abbreviation “Er.” or “Engr.” as a
title before his name, or to use any word, name or designation that will lead to the belief that the
person is a registered professional engineer.
(3) Professional Engineers Board
26.3.8 A Professional Engineers Board was established by the Professional Engineers Act. The Board
keeps and maintains a register of professional engineers, a register of practitioners and a register of
licensees. The register of professional engineers contains the names, qualifications and other
particulars of all persons registered under the Act whereas the register of practitioners, kept and
maintained annually, contains the particulars of those professional engineers with practising
certificates.
(4) Other professional bodies
26.3.9 Besides registration as a professional engineer, an engineer in Singapore is usually also a
member of a professional body, like the Institution of Engineers, Singapore (IES) or Association of Civil
Engineers, Singapore (ACES). Many engineers who are trained overseas are also members of foreign
professional bodies like the Institution of Civil Engineers, United Kingdom.
C. Quantity surveyors
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
6 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.3.10 The term “surveyor” encompasses a large number of fields, including:
◦ building surveyors who examine and evaluate defects to buildings;
◦ land and hydrographic surveyors;
◦ valuers of properties; and
◦ quantity surveyors.
(1) Regulated by the Land Surveyors Act
26.3.11 The registration of land surveyors is provided for under the Land Surveyors Act, Cap 156. It is
also provided that no person can certify to the correctness or accuracy of any title survey unless he is a
registered surveyor who has in force a practising certificate. Surveyors practising other types of survey
work, such as topographical, engineering and hydrographic surveying, need not be registered under
the Act.
(2) Land Surveyors Board
26.3.12 A Land Surveyors Board is also established by the Act. Among its other functions, it keeps and
maintains a register of surveyors, a register of practitioners, and a register of licensees.
(3) Quantity surveyors
26.3.13 Quantity surveyors, who are sometimes described by themselves and other construction
professionals as “costs consultants” or “construction economists”, are responsible for the evaluation
of construction costs.
26.3.14 These costs would usually include site preparation costs, labour, material and equipment
costs, professional fees, taxes and maintenance costs. There are no registration requirements before
someone can practise as a quantity surveyor nor are there any prohibitions against anyone styling
himself as a quantity surveyor. There is no equivalent of the Board of Architects or the Professional
Engineers Board to govern the professional conduct of quantity surveyors.
(4) Singapore Institute of Surveyors and Valuers
26.3.15 Many are also members of the local professional body for valuers and surveyors, namely, the
Singapore Institute of Surveyors and Valuers (“SISV”). SISV has three divisions that represent the
various fields of surveying, namely, quantity surveyors, land surveyors, and valuation and the general
practice surveyors. An acceptable degree or professional qualification and at least two years of
relevant postgraduate experience are necessary for membership. A person can also seek membership
of professional bodies like the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, United Kingdom which
conduct examinations in the various fields of surveying.
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
7 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
D. Duties, obligations and liabilities of owners, architects, engineers and surveyors
26.3.16 The obligations of the owners, architects, engineers and surveyors are determined by the
agreement between parties, regulations and statutory requirements, and common law.
(1) Standard form contract
26.3.17 In Singapore, professional bodies like SIA and ACES have published standard form agreements
that architects and engineers can put forward to the person engaging them. Contracts of engagement
can also be specially draed, or adapted from the standard form agreements. A contract might just
state that the terms and conditions of engagement are to be “in accordance” with the standard
agreement of the relevant professional body: Soon Nam Co Ltd v Archynamics Architects [1978-1979]
SLR 123.
26.3.18 The arrangement between parties generally determines each party’s duties, obligations and
liabilities.
(2) Traditional building contract model
26.3.19 In the traditional building contract model, the obligation of the employer or owner includes:
• securing planning permission and regulatory permits to enable works to proceed, under the
Planning Act (Cap 2323, 1998 Rev Ed) ;
• allowing the contractor suicient possession of and access to the site to enable works to
proceed, viz. a physical means of access and opportunity to enter the site by this access: LRE
Engineering Services Ltd v Otto Simon Carves Ltd (1983) 24 BLR 127 at 137.
• An obligation to do all things necessary to bring about completion: Evergreat Construction Co
Pte Ltd v Presscrete Engineering Pte Ltd [2006] 1 SLR(R) 634.
• Paying the contractor on time; typically, this is made through progress payments on an
interim valuation of works completed up to a particular date or milestone.
• An obligation not to prevent the contractor from performing his duties under the contract: TT
International Ltd v Ho Lee Construction Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 62.
(3) Duties of an Architect or Engineer
26.3.20 The general duties of an architect or engineer can include:
• working with the project manager (if any) ;
• completing the design and overseeing the development of the project;
• taking on the role of a “lead consultant”;
• supervising the works and ensuring the owner’s interests are properly served by the
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
8 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
contractor;
• performing the role of both certifier and approving authority, on progress payments and final
accounts, and other issues such as prolongation, quality, and workmanship; and
• the positive obligation of informing the quantity surveyor of defective work, such that the
work is not included in the interim valuation (in the absence of express terms to the contrary).
(4) Duties of a Quantity Surveyor
26.3.21 The general duties of a quantity surveyor can include:
• preparation of tender documents;
• contract documentation work;
• providing estimates for feasibility studies;
• advising on construction procurement; and
• supporting the architect or engineer in certification, in the evaluating the contractor’s
progress payment and final account claims.
(5) Duties and obligations under design and build contracting model
26.3.22 In a design and build arrangement, the functions of design and construction are integrated.
The design architect, structural engineer and other design consultants are not directly employed by
the owner, but employed instead by the contractor.
26.3.23 In comparison to the obligations under a traditional arrangement, the architect or engineer is
not expected to extensively supervise or administer the contract, except where statutory regulations
require professional oversight. Instead, the contractor takes on additional obligations, such as
ensuring that the works delivered are fit for purpose.
26.3.24 Further, the architect and engineer are not directly accountable to the owner, but may be liable
in tort.
26.3.25 Subject to express provisions, the obligations of the quantity surveyor are generally similar to
that of the traditional contracting model.
(6) Liabilities of professionals
26.3.26 In common law, an architect is subjected to “minimum standards” in carrying out his duties.
These duties include:
• The duty to act in good faith and to the best of his uninfluenced professional judgment: Aoki
Corporation v Lippoland (Singapore) Pte Ltd [1995] 2 SLR 609;
• The duty to perform his duty, or exercise his power with reasonable diligence and in
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
9 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
accordance with the contract: Lian Soon Construction v Guan Qian Realty Pte Ltd [1999] 3
SLR(R) 518 at [22];
• The duty to act fairly and on a rational basis in making any determination: Liew Ter Kwang v
Hurry General Contractor Pte Ltd [2004] 3 SLR(R) 59; [2004] SGHC 97;
• The duty to apply professional skill and function, but not to be an agent of the developer: Hiap
Hong & Co Pte Ltd v Hong Huat Development Co (Pte) Ltd [2001] 1 SLR(R) 458; [2001] SGCA 17.
26.3.27 The Architect and Quantity Surveyor ought to “apply [their] mind[s] to the issue” in the
valuation of amounts when issuing instructions or certificates: H P Construction & Engineering Pte Ltd
v Chin Ivan [2014] 3 SLR 1318 (HC) at para [52]. If there is proof of damage, the Quantity Surveyor may
also be liable in a claim for negligence: Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co Ltd v Rankine & Hill
(Singapore) Pte Ltd [2004] SGHC 178.
26.3.28 An engineer cannot contract out of regulatory oversight of his professional conduct by the
Professional Engineers Board (“PEB”) ; however, the Professional Engineers Act allows, but does not
compel complaints to be made to the PEB. That said, parties should not seek to interfere with a
professional engineer’s independence or influence the professional engineer in his course of work: Poh
Cheng Chew v K P Koh & Partners Pte Ltd and another [2014] 2 SLR 573 at [81] and [95].
4 PERFORMANCE BONDS
26.4.1 Performance bonds provide the employer with some security against non-performance by the
contractor: see Wah Heng Glass & Metal Products Pte Ltd v Gammon-CCI Construction Ltd [1998] SGHC
48 for a brief description of the purpose and usage of a performance bond.
A. Performance bonds issued in Singapore
26.4.2 In Singapore, the bond is usually given by financial institutions, such as banks and insurance
companies, who in turn act as sureties. The amount secured is typically 5% to 10% of the value of the
contract. It is typically issued valid for one year and subject to annual renewals until the completion of
the project or the expiry of the maintenance or defect liability period. The extent and security provided
by the bond depends on its nature and type, and its terms and conditions. The only standard form
performance bond used in Singapore is found in the appendix of the PSSCOC.
(1) Nature and types
26.4.3 Confusion could arise as to the meaning to be attached to what is commonly referred to as a
“performance bond”, for four reasons:
1. It has been described by various labels, including:
a. performance bond;
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
10 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
b. b. performance guarantee;
c. c. first demand bond, or its American sibling, the stand-by letter of credit.
2. In its application or usage, it could be used to secure various stages of the construction
process. The documentation concerned is oen described with reference to that particular
process. For example:
a. tender or bid bond;
b. advance payment bond;
c. retention money bond; or
d. maintenance bond, etc.
3. Conditions attached to the call on the bond can dier, depending on whether it is:
a. payable on demand (“demand bonds”); or
b. upon proof of default (“default bonds”)
4. It could require the surety to either:
a. pay money; or
b. perform the works le undone by the contractor.
Such a bond is usually given by the parent company of the contractor. However, such a bond is not
popular with local employers who prefer cash payment. They are usually accepted by MNC employers
operating in Singapore, who have engaged contractors from their home country under arrangements
and conditions similar to those found in the home country.
26.4.4 Disputes typically involve whether the conditions attached to the call on the bond have been
triggered, and in particular, whether an injunctions against the financial institution is justified.
(2) Demand bonds: Only fraud or unconscionability will permit injunction against payment
26.4.5 It has been recognised that performance bonds, particularly, those expressed to be payable on
demand, stand on a similar footing as irrevocable letters of credit and that an injunction restraining a
call or payment upon the bond will not be granted unless fraud or unconscionability is involved. There
is also no distinction between the principles to be applied in the cases dealing with attempts to
restrain banks from making payment from those dealing with restraint of beneficiaries from calling
upon the bond: Bocotra Construction Pte Ltd & Ors v Attorney General (No 2) [1995] 2 SLR 733 (CA).
(3) Clear case of fraud or unconscionability required for injunction
26.4.6 The sole consideration in the application for an injunction is whether there is fraud or
unconscionability. The party seeking the injunction would be required to establish a clear case of fraud
or unconscionability in interlocutory proceedings. It is not enough to raise "mere allegations". In the
UK, an interlocutory injunction will not therefore be granted against a bank which has given a bond or
guarantee to restrain its payment, since the bank must honour it according to its terms, unless it has
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
11 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
clear notice or evidence or fraud: Edward Owen Engineering Ltd v Barclays Bank International Ltd
[1978] 1 All ER 976. As regards the standard of proof of fraud, the courts have accepted, for cases
involving letters of credit, what is known as "the Ackner standard" in assessing allegations of fraud in
applications for interlocutory injunctions (propounded by Ackner LJ in United Trading Corporation v
Allied Arab Bank [1985] 2 Lloyd's Rep 554; applied in Singapore in Korea Industry Co Ltd v Andoll Ltd
[1989] 3 MLJ 449).
(4) Unconscionability is distinct from fraud
26.4.7 There is a recent line of cases, mostly in the High Court, elaborating on the requirement of
"unconscionability" as distinct from "fraud", thus departing from the UK position. In the decision of
the High Court in Min Thai Holdings Pte Ltd v Sunlabel & Anor [1999] 2 SLR 368, the court stated that
the concept of unconscionability "involves unfairness, as distinct from dishonesty or fraud, or conduct
so reprehensible or lacking in good faith that a court of conscience would either restrain the party or
refuse to assist the party." The doctrine that unconscionability is a separate ground from "fraud" was
reiterated by the Court of Appeal in Samwoh Asphalt Premix Pte Ltd v Sum Cheong Piling Pte Ltd
[2002] 1 SLR 1; see also JBE Properties v Gammon [2010] SGCA 46.
26.4.8 The Court of Appeal has noted that the letter of credit serves a dierent function from a
performance bond; hence, a lower threshold of unconscionability (instead of fraud) applies in
restraining a call on a performance bond: JBE Properties v Gammon [2010] SGCA 46.
(5) Strong prima facie case of unconscionability for contractor to restrain employer as beneficiary
26.4.9 Nonetheless, a contractor who seeks to restrain the employer as beneficiary of the performance
bond from calling on it must establish a strong prima facie case of unconscionability: AES Façade Pte
Ltd v Wyse Pte Ltd and another [2018] SGHC 163. Recently, the following principles on
unconscionability have been described as (a) the courts are slow to upset the status quo and disrupt
the allocation of risk which the parties have decided upon themselves (b) a strong prima facie case of
unconscionability must be established (c) unconscionability suggests unfairness or bad faith and
ought not be raised where there are genuine disputes and (d) the court need not carry out a detailed
examination of the merits of the case: Tactic Engineering Pte Ltd v Sato Kogyo (s) Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC
103.
26.4.10 The call on a bond can considered unconscionable “where either the beneficiary of the
performance bond had by its own default contributed to the circumstances which founded the call, or
both parties were wholly innocent”: Ryobi-Kiso (S) Pte Ltd v Lum Chang Building Contractors Pte Ltd
[2013] SGHC 86 at [19]. A call on a performance bond ought to be restrained if the caller did not have
an honest belief that there was any non-performance in respect of the underlying contract:  Ryobi
Tactics Pte Ltd v UES Holdings Pte Ltd and another and another matter 
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
12 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2019] SGHC 11.
26.4.11  Parties may be able to agree by contract to exclude unconscionability as a ground for stopping
a call on a bond provided clear language is used: CKR Contract Services Pte Ltd v Asplenium Land Pte
Ltd [2015] 3 SLR 1041.
5 SUBCONTRACTS
A. Explanation of subcontracts
(1) Usual practice for contractors to engage subcontractors
26.5.1 In Singapore, as is the case elsewhere, it is usual for the contractor to engage sub-contractors to
whom he will owe and be entitled to contractual obligations according to the terms of the sub-
contract. For larger projects, sub-contracts are also usually in standard forms that are mostly
derivatives of the main contract forms. There would be appropriate cross-references between the
main and sub-contract forms and some provisions of the main contract may even be replicated in the
sub-contract. The sub-contractor will not normally owe any direct contractual obligations to the
employer or consultants.
(2) Subcontracts can vary considerably in type
26.5.2 The type of contractual arrangements that can be arrived at in sub-contracts can vary
considerably. They can involve the supply of labour only, a supply of goods and materials only, a
supply and build arrangement, or even a complete “design and build” arrangement. Most of the
principles of law applicable to a main contract would also be applicable to a sub-contract.
B. Employer’s selection of sub-contractors
(1) Traditional system: Employer selects specialist contractors who enter into sub-contract with main
contractor
26.5.3 In the traditional system, it is usual to provide in the main contract, terms that allow the
employer to select for the main contractor, certain specialist contractors whose participation in the
project he desires. The specialist contractor is then usually made to enter into a sub-contract with the
main contractor. This process is usually described as a “nomination”.
(2) Two standard form nominated sub-contracts widely used in Singapore
26.5.4 Two standard form nominated sub-contracts are in wide usage in Singapore. They are:
• the Standard Conditions of Nominated Sub-Contract for use in conjunction with Public Sector
Conditions of Contract for Construction Work 2008 (now in its 5th edition) ; and
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
13 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• the SIA Conditions of Sub-Contract for use in conjunction with the main contract (now in its
8th edition).
C. Incorporation of main contract terms
(1) Express terms and contra proferentum
26.5.5 As the sub-contract obligations commonly mirror that of the main contract (in a limited aspect),
the drasman of sub-contracts typically incorporates the terms of the main contract by reference. As a
general rule, anything in the main contract that is not applicable or appropriate in the sub-contract
ought not to be impliedly incorporated: Star-Trans Far East Pte Ltd v Norske-Tech Ltd [1996] 2 SLR 409
(CA) .
(2) Whether or not a provision is incorporated depends on intention of parties
26.5.6 The relevant principle in ascertaining whether a provision or a document ought to be
incorporated is to ascertain the intention of the parties. Where the meaning of the provisions already
in the sub-contract is perfectly clear, there can be no resort to other documents to give another
meaning to it. Where the drasman had purposely le out any condition which he could without
diiculty have put in, then the contra proferentem rule may be applied to prevent the clause or
document from forming part of the sub-contract: Union Workshop (Construction) Co v Ng Chew Ho
Construction Co Sdn Bhd [1978] 2 MLJ 22. Where the alleged clause incorporating terms of the main
contract in the sub-contract is unclear or ambiguous, as where it merely provides that “the sub-
contractor shall observe, perform and comply with all the provisions of the main contract on the part
of the contractor to be observed, performed and complied with so far as they relate and apply to the
sub-contract works” it is unlikely that the court will find that such a clause has the eect of
incorporating the provisions of the main contract into the sub-contract: Kum Leng General Contractor
v Hytech Builders Pte Ltd [1996] 1 SLR 751.
(3) Incorporation via back-to-back provisions
26.5.7 Similarly, incorporation solely via back-to-back provisions will not suice. Rather, back-to-back
provisions should be “construed in light of the factual matrix known to the parties at the time they
contracted”. However, the right to payment may still persist on a back-to-back basis with the main
contract, if “work had been accepted or certified for payment following an application for payment for
such work having been made” by the subcontractor: per Menon JC (as he then was) in GIB Automation
Pte Ltd v Deluge Fire Protection (SEA) Pte Ltd [2007] 2 SLR(R) 918; [2007] SGHC 48 at [49].
(4) Subcontract formed by conduct
26.5.8 A subcontract may also be concluded by conduct before the terms are wholly reduced to
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
14 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
writing: in United Eng Contractors Pte Ltd v L&M Concrete Specialists Pte Ltd [2000] SGHC 74 OR [1999]
SGHC 141 OR CS Bored Pile System Pte Ltd v Evan Lim & Co Pte Ltd [2006] 2 SLR(R) 1; [2006] SGHC 11.
(5) Subcontract formed by oral agreement
26.5.9 In addition, extrinsic proof of oral collateral contracts is admissible under proviso (b) of s 94 of
the Evidence Act, if its terms are not inconsistent with those contained in the main agreement.
D. "Pay When Paid" provisions (now prohibited)
(1) “Pay When Paid” Provisions: Sub-contractor only entitled payment when main contractor receives
payment
26.5.10 “Pay when paid” provisions stipulate that the sub-contractor is only entitled to be paid when
the main contractor has himself received payment. “Pay when paid” provisions operate even if
payments have been certified but not received yet by the main contractor, or if payment has been
withheld from the main contractor by the employer due to the main contractor’s own default or
breach, and the default or breach was not caused or contributed to by the sub-contractor: Brightside
Mechanical and Electrical Services Group Ltd v Hyundai Engineering and Construction Co Ltd [1988]
SLR 186; Interpro Engineering Pte Ltd v Sin Heng Construction Co Pte Ltd [1998] 1 SLR 694.
(2) “Pay when paid” clauses prohibited by statute
26.5.11 In Singapore, “pay when paid” clauses are now prohibited by s 9 of the Building and
Construction Industry Security of Payment Act 2004 (“SOPA”) for contracts that are governed by the
legislation. However, while s 9 of the SOPA renders void unenforceable “pay when paid” payment
structures, it “does not absolve a party of its payment obligations owed to the other”: SKK (S) Pte Ltd v
Management Corporation Strata Title Plan No 1166 [2013] SGHCR 11 at [23]. E. Direct and Indirect
Claims
E. Sub-contractor and direct claims against employer
(1) Privity of contract
26.5.12  As a general rule, a sub-contractor cannot make any claim against the employer for the price
of work done or material supplied under the sub- contract: Henderick Engineering v Kansai Paint
Singapore Pte Ltd [1992] SGHC 184. The existence of a direct payment clause, permitting the employer
to make direct payments to the sub-contractor, does not create a contractual relationship between the
employer and the sub-contractor: A Vigers Sons & Co Ltd v Swindell [1939] 3 All ER 590. Similarly, an
employer cannot make any claim against the sub-contractor directly: Dawber Willamson Roofing Ltd v
Humberside County Council (1979) 14 BLR 70.
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
15 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) CRTPA and exceptions to privity
26.5.13 With the enactment of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 that came into operation
on 1 January 2002, it may be possible for a nominated sub-contractor to assert rights as a third party
against the employer even in the absence of a direct contract with the employer. Section 2(3) of the Act
provides that the third party should be expressly identified in the contract by name, as a member of a
class, or as answering to a particular description. It is possible that a wide category of persons can
qualify as third parties under the Act.
26.5.14 In the case of an undisclosed principal, there remains controversy in Singapore as to whether
the common law exceptions to privity apply.
26.5.15 In what was referred to by the Court of Appeal as a “leading decision”, Judith Prakash J held
that in a disclosed principal situation, Prosperland (a developer of a condominium) was entitled to sue
the building contractor (Civic) and the architects (collectively “the defendants”) for substantial
damages, even though Prosperland had suered no loss arising from the breach of
contract: Prosperland Pte Ltd v Civic Construction Pte Ltd [2004] 4 SLR(R) 129; [2004] SGHC 157 (HC).
(3) Undisclosed principal
26.5.16 It is less certain as to whether an exception to privity could apply in an undisclosed principal
situation, as the Court of Appeal’s observations on the matter have, thus far, been in obiter.
Nonetheless, the undisclosed principal could be made a party to the proceedings, as the court has the
power to order joinder under O 15 r 6(2) (b) of the Rules of Court: Family Food Court (a firm) v Seah
Book Lock and anor [2008] 4 SLR 272; [2008] SGCA 31 (CA) at [63]; see also the doctrine of the
undisclosed principal, M P Furmston in Cheshire, Fifoot and Furmston’s Law of Contract (OUP, 16th Ed,
2012).
(4) Contractor’s negligence liability owed to subcontractor
26.5.17 The main contractor may also be liable in negligence to the subcontractor, if a duty of care is
owed to the subcontractor: Jurong Primewide v Moh Seng Cranes & ors [2014] 2 SLR 360; [2014] SGCA
6 (CA) ; see also, Spandeck test under “Section 8 Construction and the Law of Negligence”.
(5) Estoppel and unjust enrichment
26.5.18 Other indirect claims include estoppel and unjust enrichment: see Laws of Singapore, Chapter
19: Restitution.
6 TIME AND COMPLETION
26.6.1 This section will look at the issue of completion and extension of time in construction projects
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
16 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
within the contractual framework of the SIA standard form as most of the case law has arisen in that
context.
A. Completion criteria
(1) “Completion” is determined by construing the standard form in question
26.6.2 Where standard form contracts are being used, the issue of completion is oen reduced to
construing what is meant by `completion´ in the standard form in question. A number of standard
form contracts, including pre-1980 versions of the SIA Contract defined completion in terms of
`practical completion´. Usage had also been made of the term `substantial completion´ in some
other standard form contracts. For the SIA Contract, the term completion is used without the
description “practical” or “substantial”. In the absence of any definition of completion, substantial or
practical completion is normally regarded to have been achieved once the works are in a condition
which is reasonably ready to be used by the employer:  Smile Inc Dental Surgeons Pte Ltd v OP3
International Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 246.
B. Time for completion
(1) Construction contracts should contain provisions relating to time, absenting which the court will
imply term to complete within a reasonable time
26.6.3 Construction contracts contain provisions relating to the commencement and completion of the
works that the contractor is engaged to carry out. If the contract is silent on this, a reasonable time for
completion would be implied:  Lee Kai Corp (Pte) Ltd v Chong Gay Theatres Ltd [1992] 2 SLR 68911
(CA). If in a standard form contract, the time for completion in the schedule to a contract is le blank,
the court will imply a term to complete within a reasonable time:  Shia Kian Eng (trading as Forest
Contractors) v Nakano Singapore (Pte) Ltd [2001] SGHC 68). What is a reasonable time will be treated
as a question of fact. Most standard form contracts also impose an obligation on the contractor to
proceed with due diligence and expedition. However, it is doubtful whether such an obligation can be
implied in the absence of an expressed term: CAA Technologies Pte Ltd v Newcon Builders Pte Ltd
[2017] 2 SLR 940. Unless it is expressly provided, time is not of the essence in construction contracts:
Ibid.
(2) Standard form contracts contain liquidated damages and extension of time clauses
26.6.4 Most standard form building and infrastructure contracts, contains liquidated damages and
extension of time clauses. The liquidated damages clause gives the employer a remedy in pre-agreed
damages if the contractor fails to complete on time and caps the contractor’s.  A sub-contractor can be
made liable for liquidated damages that the contractor is made to pay the employer in certain
circumstances:  L&M Airconditioning (Pte) Ltd v SA Shee & Co (Pte) Ltd [1993] 3 SLR 483. Where the
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
17 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
main contractor seeks to recover from a subcontractor liquidated damages paid by the main
contractor to the employer, it is necessary for the main contractor to prove that the liquidated
damages arose solely from the breaches by the subcontractor. The subcontractor does not have the
burden to show that delays were caused by other subcontractors: CAA Technologies Pte Ltd v Newcon
Builders Pte Ltd [2017] 2 SLR 940.
C. Extension of time clauses
(1) Contractor’s work may be aected by acts of employer
26.6.5 The contractor´s progress and completion may be aected by acts of the employer or his
agents. These employer related events can be found in SIA 7th Edition and 8th Edition, Clauses 23(1)
(f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (n) (o) and (p). Clauses 23(1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (l), (m) deal with neutral events,
mainly arising from circumstances not reasonably foreseeable.
(2) Neutral events and employer-related events may render original date of completion inapplicable
26.6.6 The contract date for completion may be aected by neutral events and employer related
events to such an extent that it is rendered inapplicable. Without an applicable date for completion,
time will be set “at large” and the obligation to complete becomes assessable by normal common law
principles of reasonableness instead of the agreed contractual framework. With an extension of time,
on the other hand, a new date may be set for completion and the right to liquidated damages
preserved.
26.6.7 Arguably, an event that can be construed as a force majeure event can excuse a delay in
completing or even in performance of the works contracted for by the contractor:  Holcim (Singapore)
Pte Ltd v Precise Development Pte Ltd [2011] 2 SLR 106.
(3) Employer could potentially lose right to compensation where there is a “nil” for liquidated
damages in the contract, but the legal position is unclear
26.6.8 The employer could arguably lose his right to compensation where the express provision for
liquidated damages is exhaustive of his rights and "nil" is inserted for the rate of liquidated and
ascertained damages: Temloc Ltd v Errill Properties Ltd (1987) 39 BLR 34. However, in the local
decision of Shia Kian Eng (trading as Forest Contractors v Nakano Singapore (Pte) Ltd [2001] SGHC 68,
the parties agreed that there should be no liquidated damages. Judith Prakash J found it “diicult to
accept the proposition that simply because it was agreed that there should be no liquidated damages
clause, no damages at all could be claimed” if the plainti´s delay had caused loss to the defendants.
D. Contra proferentem
(1) Liquidated damages and extensions of time clauses construed by the courts against the employer,
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
18 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
unless the contract stipulates otherwise
26.6.9 Both liquidated damages and extensions of time clauses (see Lian Soon Construction Pte Ltd v
Guan Qian Realty Pte Ltd (No 2) [2000] 1 SLR 495, per Warren Khoo J) operate primarily for the
employer in that the main contractor is suiciently protected by the common law rules on
impossibility and interference with performance. Thus, the attitude of the courts has been to construe
them contra proferentem, strictly against the employer: Peak Construction Ltd v McKinney
Foundations Ltd (1971) 1 BLR 111.
26.6.10 However, it should be noted that Article 7 SIA 8th Edition excludes the application of the contra
proferentem rule of construction.
E. Employer’s obligation concerning completion
26.6.10 The employer has an implied obligation to bring about completion and should not prevent the
contractor from carrying out the contractor’s obligation under the contract: Evergreat Construction Co
Pte Ltd v Presscrete Engineering Pte Ltd [2006] 1 SLR(R) 634 and TT International Ltd v Ho Lee
Construction Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 62.
26.6.11 Most standard forms of contract provide for loss and expense to be certified by the architect
where the contractor has been delayed by breaches or acts of prevention by the employer or his agent.
The PSSCOC provides for such compensation but “loss and expense” has a special meaning in this
contract as defined in clause 1.1(q) which serves to limit the contractor’s recovery of compensation
under this head to what is specified in the definition (see also TT International Ltd v Ho Lee
Construction Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 62).
26.6.12 However, none of the SIA forms aer 1980 has a loss and expense clause for prolongation. In
fact, Clause 31(14) expressly provides that the architect has no power to decide or certify any claim for
breach of contract made against the Employer by the Contractor. However, one might consider that
Clause 12(4) [Valuation of Variations] does provide a limited express entitlement under the contract to
additional `preliminaries´ costs which are associated with variations, which in themselves do not
amount to a breach of contract.
7 TERMINATION
26.7.1 A typical construction contract usually lasts for a fairly long period of time and the option to
terminate the contract by an innocent party in the event of a breach by the defaulting party before the
date of completion is an important remedy. Termination can be made according to the principles of
general contract law or under the terms of the contract.
A. Termination under general principles of contract law
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
19 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Four situations in which innocent party may terminate contract
26.7.2 A repudiatory breach could arise under common law or pursuant to express provisions in the
contract. In RDC Concrete Pte Ltd v Sato Kogyo (S) Pte Ltd and anor appeal [2007] 4 SLR 413 (“RDC”),
the Court of Appeal summarised four situations in which an innocent party might be entitled to
terminate: (a) where a contractual term breached clearly states that, in the event of certain event or
events occurring, the innocent party is entitled to terminate the contract, (b) where the party in
breach renounces the contract by clearly conveying to the innocent party that it will not perform its
contractual obligations at all (c) condition-warranty approach – party in breach has breached
a condition of the contract (as opposed to a warranty, and (d) where the party in breach has
committed a breach, the consequences of which will deprive the innocent party of substantially the
whole benefit which it was intended that the innocent party should obtain from the contract. 
B. Termination under the terms of contract
(1)  Standard form contracts and termination
26.7.3 Most standard form contracts expressly provide powers for the employer to terminate the
contract in circumstances specified so that the employer can terminate without having to
demonstrate that the contractor’s breach amounted to a repudiatory breach. In fact, some provisions
give the employer a power to terminate even without demonstrating that the contractor has breached
the contract or is in any way in default of his obligations under it (see for example, clause 32(1) SIA
Main Contract and clause 31.4(1) of the PSSCOC and TT International Ltd v Ho Lee Construction Pte Ltd
[2017] SGHC 62 as to how such a provision should be applied). The termination clauses may also
provide the employer additional rights or remedies and a clear set of procedures to be followed upon
termination that may otherwise be uncertain in the event of a repudiation under common law. For
example, concerning rights, under clause 32(10) of the SIA Main Contract, an employer is entitled to
withhold payment under the interim certificates if he accepts the wrongful repudiation of a contractor
as terminating the contract: SA Shee & Co (Pte) Ltd v Kaki Bukit Industrial Park Pte Ltd [2000] 2 SLR 12.
Typical grounds in most standard form contracts for termination by the employer based on the
contractor’s wrongful conduct include:
• default of the contractor;
• bankruptcy of the contractor;
• failure to start work;
• failure to proceed with the work;
• failure to comply with architect´s instructions;
• failure to comply with the contract;
• failure to complete the works; and
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
20 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• failure to remedy defects.
Unlike the employer, most standard form contracts allow the contractor to terminate only in a limited
number of circumstances. Most of these involve either the employer’s failure to make payment or his
interference in the architect’s or contract supervisor’s certifications (for example, clause 33(1) of the
SIA Main Contract). The PSSCOC, for example, does not even contain any expressed provision allowing
the contractor to terminate.
 (3) Contractual provisions prescribing termination procedures must be fully complied with
26.7.4 As termination, also known as forfeiture clauses, is construed strictly (Roberts v Bury
Commissioners (1870) LR 5 CP 310), the contractual provisions prescribing the procedures by which a
contract may be determined must be properly and faithfully complied with for the termination to be
eective. Otherwise, the termination may be wrongful and amount to a wrongful repudiation by the
employer instead - Lodder v Slowey [1904] AC 442. The contractor is then entitled to sue the employer
for the actual value of the work done and materials supplied or damages or both.
(4) Forfeiture clauses construed contra proferentum
26.7.5 Since forfeiture clauses have such serious consequences, they are construed contra
proferentem and the requirements for notices to be given need careful observation - Central Provident
Fund Board v Ho Bok Kee [1980-1981] SLR 180; AL Stainless Industries v Wei Sin Construction Pte Ltd
[2001] SGHC 243.
(5) Contractor”s occupation of site
26.7.6 Where the contract does not contain a termination clause and the contractor disputes the
alleged default, he may contest or resist any attempt to eject him from the site: London Borough of
Hounslow v Twickenham Garden Developments Ltd [1971] Ch 233. See also Mayfield Holdings Ltd v
Moana Reef Ltd [1973] 1 NZLR 309. The terms of some standard form contract like clauses 32(4) & 32(5)
of the SIA Main Contracts, however, require the contractor to deliver possession of the site upon
receipt of the Notice of Termination, irrespective of the validity of the notice.
8 CONSTRUCTION AND THE LAW OF NEGLIGENCE
26.8.1 The law of negligence has a significant impact on construction projects. Owners may find
recourse in a claim in tort if they have no contractual relationship with the parties responsible for the
negligent design or construction of their property, or if the operation of the Contract (Rights of Third
Parties Act (Cap 53, 2002 Rev Ed) is excluded by express contract terms. Following the seminal decision
by the Singapore Court of Appeal in Spandeck Engineering (S) Pte Ltd v Defence Science and
Technology Agency [2007] 4 SLR(R) 100 (“Spandeck”), there is now a single, universal test for
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
21 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
determining a duty of care in the law of negligence, irrespective of the type of the damages claimed.
In Spandeck, the contractor claimed against the superintending oicer for negligently under-valuing
and under-certifying works carried out by the contractor. There was no contractual relationship
between the contractor and the superintending oicer. The Court of Appeal airmed the trial court’s
finding that the superintending oicer did not owe a duty of care to the contractor.
26.8.2 The Court of Appeal formulated and applied a two-stage test, preceded by a threshold test of
factual foreseeability. In the first stage, suicient legal proximity must be established between the
plainti and defendant, viz. on physical, circumstantial and causal proximity, and supported by a
voluntary assumption of responsibility and reliance. If the threshold of factual foreseeability and the
first stage are surmounted, the second stage examines if there are policy considerations that ought to
negate the prima facie case established in the first stage of the test. The Court of Appeal added that
the Spandeck test should be applied incrementally, with reference to prior cases in analogous
situations. Further, the mere existence of statutory duty is not in itself conclusive of a common law
duty of care: Tan Juay Pah v Kimly Construction & Ors [2012] 2 SLR 549 (CA) ; see also Resource Piling v
Geospecs [2014] 1 SLR 485 (HC decision referred to at CA). Ultimately, whether the “requisite proximity
is present in a particular case, …will turn on the precise factual matrix concerned”: Ngiam Kong Seng v
Lim Chiew Hock [2008] 3 SLR(R) 674 (CA) at para [123].
26.8.7  The Court of Appeal in NTUC Foodfare Co-operative Ltd v SIA Engineering Co Ltd and another
[2018] 2 SLR 588 airmed Spandeck in the single test laid down for the establishment of a duty of care
in tort and recognised that it doing so, there was a departure from English law principles which applies
a general exclusionary rule against recovery for pure economic loss. It found that there was nothing
intrinsically wrong about recovery for pure economic loss, provided the single test premised on
proximity and policy consideration is met. Aer Spandeck, it is therefore no longer necessary to
characterise the nature of the plainti’s loss before considering whether a duty of care arises in tort.
26.8.8  The presence of a statutory duty would not automatically give rise to a concomitant common
law duty of care. It has been held that “statutory duty would fall within the rubric of the existing
analysis for negligence:” Jurong Primewide Pte Ltd v Moh Seng Cranes Pte Ltd and others [2014] SGCA
6. Further, the law on occupier’s liability was held to be “subsumed under the tort of negligence:  See
Toh Siew Kee v Ho Ah Lam Ferrocement (Pte) Ltd and others [2013] SGCA 29.
26.8.9  The standard of care was the general objective standard of a reasonable person using ordinary
care and skill. It had been held that the Workplace Health and Safety Act framework and other
guidelines “laid down industry standards which were relevant in ascertaining the appropriate
standard of care:” Miah Rasel v 5 Ways Engineering Services Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 235.
9 ARBITRATION
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
22 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.9.1 Arbitration features a tribunal empowered to judge and determine a matter, distinct and
separate from litigation in constituted courts. As the arbitral decision is binding, arbitration ought to
be distinguished from other Alternative Dispute Resolution methods.
A. Arbitration provisions in standard form contracts
26.9.2 Arbitration provisions exist in many of the standard forms, such as the JCT Contract (2005 Ed.),
ICE Form of Contract (7th Ed. 1999), PSSCOC and the new suite of standard forms of contract
introduced by FIDIC (Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs-Counseils).
(1) Security of Payments Act renders void any arbitration provision that aims to circumvent the Act
26.9.3 Notably, section 36 of the Security of Payments Act (“SOPA”) renders void any provision that has
the eect of “modifying, restricting or prejudicing” its operation, or which may “reasonably be
construed as an attempt to deter a person from taking action under the Act”. An arbitration provision
which aims to circumvent the SOPA would thus be rendered void. The SOPA is discussed below, under
“Legislation”.
(2) Arbitration Act allows party to challenge an arbitral award
26.9.4 Under the Arbitration Act, a party can also challenge an arbitral award either by:
• 1. Filing an appeal with the High Court on a question of law arising out of the award under s
49(1) of the Act; or
• 2. Applying to the court to set aside the award on the grounds prescribed under the s 49(3) of
the Act.
26.9.5 International and domestic arbitration are discussed in detail in the Laws of Singapore Chapter
4.
10 LEGISLATION
A. Building Control Act (Chapter 29)
(1) Standards of safety and good building practices
26.10.1 The Building Control Act is a prescriptive code. It prescribes standards of safety and good
building practice. The legislation provides a blueprint to control legally the construction of building
works, the monitoring of existing structures with powers to deal with them where safety is in issue. It is
well known that the current legislation was a direct consequence of the Hotel New World collapse.
(2) Every person for whom building works are to be carried out have to appoint an accredited checker
as an extra level of control in process of design
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
23 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.10.2 A central feature of the legislation was the conception of the role of an "accredited checker".
The accredited checker operates as an extra level of control in the process of design. The legislation
obliges "every person for whom building works are to be carried out" to appoint an accredited
checker. The accredited checker must be registered with the Building Authority and maintain no
professional or financial interest (other than the stipulated appointment) in the building works
concerned. In addition, only qualified civil or structural engineers of 15 years' standing in terms of
practical experience in the design and construction of buildings, in addition to being distinguished by
ability, standing or special knowledge or experience could be appointed as accredited independent
checkers. This is clearly to ensure that the professional stature of the expert would safeguard his
independence when appointed as accredited checker. The appointed accredited checker is required to
check the key structural elements in the plans and issue a certificate and evaluation report approving
them. This is the independent technical control prescribed by the legislation.
(3) Commissioner of Building Control relies solely on certificate and evaluation report of accredited
checker to approve plans
26.10.3 Section 6(1) provides for approval of plans by the Commissioner of Building Control. Among
the documents to be submitted with the plans is the certificate of the accredited checker in relation to
the adequacy of the key structural elements. By section 6(3), the Commissioner of Building Control is
authorised to rely solely on the certificate and evaluation report of the accredited checker to approve
plans. Hence, the Commissioner of Building Control has no duty to check the plans when granting
"approval".
(4) Commissioner has discretion to carry out random checks on structural plans and design
calculations and may revoke approval if any information given previously was false
26.10.4 Notwithstanding the earlier section, section 5(6) gives the Commissioner the discretion to
carry out random checks with respect to structural plans and design calculations of the building
works. The Commissioner also retains the right to revoke acquiescence of the building plans if satisfied
that any information given in respect of the approval had been false in a material particular.
(5) Government and public oicers are excluded from liability by reason that works are carried out in
accordance with the Act or works are subject to approval by the Commissioner
26.10.5 Section 32 is an extremely comprehensive exclusion of liability of the Government and public
oicers. It even protects the government and any public oicer from suit arising by reason of the fact
that any building works are carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act or that such
building works or plans of the building works are subject to inspection or approval by the
Commissioner or the public oicer. Accordingly, the Building Authority has been given unequivocal
protection which the decision of Murphy v Brentwood District Council [1991] 1 AC 398 achieved to a
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
24 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
limited extent in England in 1991.
(6) Amendments were made in 2003 to move from procurement methods to design and build, give the
Commissioner the power to stop dangerous building works and may require the person for whom
works are being carried out to take actions to avert such danger
26.10.6 Various amendments have been made to the Act. In September 2003, amendments were made
to take into account the move away from the traditional form of procurement to the design and build
method. Section 7A gives the Commissioner the power to issue an order to immediately stop building
works that pose a danger to persons, property or other buildings. In addition, the Commissioner may
require the person for whom the works are carried out to take certain remedial and other measures to
avert such danger. An example of the type of situation to which this section could apply may be found
in Xpress Print Pte Ltd v Monocras Pte Ltd & Anor [2000] 3 SLR 545.
26.10.7 In September 2007, further amendments were made to update building control systems, to
enhance building safety and raise professionalism in the industry.
26.10.8 For instance, section section 8(f) (ii) introduced a new requirement for developers to appoint
an Instrumentation Specialist Builder (“ISB”). The scope of the Act also extended to “Underground
Building Works” under part II of the Act. Builder’s licensing was introduced. Provisions on existing
requirements were also strengthened.
26.10.9 In 2008, the Building Control Regulations and the Building Control (Accredited Checkers and
Accredit Checking Organisations) Regulations were similarly amended, and the Building Control
(Builders’ Licensing) Regulations were introduced.
26.10.10 These changes are delineated in “A Guidebook to the Changes in Building Control”, published
by the Building and Construction Authority.
B. Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Act 2004
(1) Singapore’s Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Act 2004 incorporates most
key features of New South Wales’ Act with several dierences
26.10.11 In 2005, Parliament introduced the Building and Construction Industry Security for Payment
Act 2004 (“SOPA”) in Singapore. The Act is primarily based on the New South Wales Building and
Construction Industry Security of Payment Act 1999 (Act 46 of 1999) (“the NSW Act”). The NSW Act and
SOPA have similar structure and purpose, with several important modifications in SOPA taking into
account local concerns and circumstances..
(2) Most standard form contracts in use in Singapore have been amended to accommodate the Act;
Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Regulations 2005 accompany the Act
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
25 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.10.12 SOPA came into operation on 1 April 2005. Since then, most of the standard form contracts in
use in Singapore accommodate the provisions of the SOPA. In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 41 of the Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Act 2004, the Minister for
National Development has introduced the Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment
Regulations 2005 ("the Regulations") that accompany the Act. Like the parent Act, the Regulations
came into operation on 1st April 2005. The Regulations contain, inter alia, requirements that were le
by the Act to the Minister to prescribe.
(3) Legislation’s far-impact on practices of construction industry
26.10.13 The legislation has also had far-reaching impact on the practices of the construction industry.
For instance, amendments have been made to the Public Sector Standard Conditions of Contract to
bring it in line with the legislation.
(4) Primary objective of legislation is to reduce diiculties faced by construction industry
(i) Purpose
26.10.14 The primary objective of the legislation is to redress the diiculties faced by the construction
industry in obtaining payment for work done and services rendered. The intention of the legislature is
unequivocally to facilitate payment in the construction industry. In that regard, the Act not only
categorically airms the right to payment, it goes further and also provides a mechanism for obtaining
payment through the speedy dispute resolution procedure of adjudication. Anticipating that eorts
may be made to impede the right to payment, the Act prohibits any attempt to hamper the right to
payment with its anti-avoidance provisions.
26.10.15 Adjudication has “temporary finality”, as adjudication is provisional in nature and is final and
binding until the parties’ dierences are ultimately and conclusively determined or resolved. The court
has the power to set aside or stay enforcement of an adjudication determination where necessary, if
justified by a high threshold of “securing the ends of justice”, such as the insolvency of the claimant: W
Y Steel Construction v Osko Pte Ltd [2013] 3 SLR 380 at [70].
(ii) Process
 (a) Jurisdiction of adjudicator and the payment claim
26.10.16  The scope of the claimant’s case in an adjudication is circumscribed by what is being claimed
or advanced in the payment claim. There is no mandate for an adjudicator to deal with a claim that is
not already brought within the payment claim: Rong Shun Engineering & Construction Pte Ltd v CP
Ong Construction Pte Ltd [2017] 4 SLR 359.
26.10.17 The outcome of a number of adjudication cases used to turn on issues relating to compliance
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
26 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
with the requirements of SOPA. Many of these involved jurisdictional challenges based on the validity
of payment claims (see for example, Sungdo Engineering & Construction (S) Pte Ltd v Italcor Pte Ltd
[2010] SGHC 105 and Chip Hup Hup Kee Construction Pte Ltd v Ssangyong Engineering & Construction
Co Ltd [2009] SGHC 237. While the validity of a payment claim continues to have jurisdictional
consequences (Lee Wee Lick Terence (alias Li Weili Terence) v Chua Say Eng (formerly trading as Weng
Fatt Construction Engieering) [2013] 1 SLR 401), the Court of Appeal in Audi Construction Pte Ltd v
Kian Hiap Construction Pte Ltd [2018] SGCA 4, had considered and accepted the operation of waiver
and estoppel for the situation where the respondent failed to raised jurisdiction objections in a
payment response. Such failure may result in the respondent being prohibited from relying on such an
objection before a tribunal or court: Yau Lee Construction (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Far East Square Pte
Ltd  [2018] SGHC 261.The objection should be raised at the earliest possible opportunity: Grouteam Pte
Ltd v UES Holdings Pte Ltd [2016] 5 SLR 1011. An adjudicator has the power to decide on his own
jurisdiction, subject to review by the court: (ibid.)
(b) Determination in absence of payment response
26.10.18 Under s 15(3) of the Act, an adjudicator’s jurisdictional powers are set out and circumscribed.
A respondent cannot raise new grounds for withholding payment that were not included in his
payment response. The Court of Appeal observed that this is not a violation of natural justice and the
right to be heard; rather, a respondent has failed to exercise his chance to respond to a payment claim
and make his case. Nonetheless, the adjudicator is not entitled to simply take the payment claim at
face value and must “consider the material properly before him” and there is nothing to stop a
respondent from raising patent errors: W Y Steel Construction v Osko Pte Ltd [2013] 3 SLR 380.
However, the adjudicator’s task is not just to look for patent errors. There is a need to examine alleged
errors in the context of the whole evidence or material available. The standard of proof in evaluating
the material in the absence of a payment response is to consider whether the Claimant’s case has
been made out on a prima facie basis: Comfort Management v OGSP Engineering [2018] 1 SLR 979.
(c) Natural justice
26.10.18   The court has the power to set aside an adjudication determination if an adjudicator has
acted in breach of his duty to comply with the requirements of natural justice: Citiwall Safety Glass Pte
Ltd v Mansource Interior Pte Ltd [2015] 1 SLR 797 at [47]. There are two aspects concerning natural
justice (a) the parties to the adjudication must be accorded a fair hearing (the fair hearing rule), and (b)
the adjudicator must have been independent and impartial in deciding the dispute (the no bias
rule): CMC Ravenna Singapore Branch v CGW Construction & Engineering (S) Pte Ltd [2018] 3 SLR
503 at [24]; SEF Construction at [49]; AM Associates (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Laguna National Golf and
Country Club Ltd [2009] SGHC 260 at [23].
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
27 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26.10.19   An adjudicator can be in breach of natural justice if he proceeds to decide a dispute without
giving the parties a fair opportunity to address the relevant issue on which the dispute was decided: 
Bintai Kindenko Pte Ltd v Samsung C&T Corp  [2018] SGCA 39. A party that omits to address the
adjudicator on an obviously crucial issue or one that turns out to be pivotal could not be said to have
been denied a fair opportunity to be heard on the issue:  Glaziers Engineering Pte Ltd v WCS
Engineering Construction Pte Ltd [2018] SGCA 66. Even if there is a breach of natural justice, an
adjudicator’s determination would not be set aside the breach could not have caused any prejudice to
the respondent: ibid; see also Hauslab Design & Build Pte Ltd v Vinod Kumar Ramgopal Didwania
[2017] 3 SLR 103.
(d) Repeat claims
26.10.20  A claimant is not precluded from making a “repeat claim” in adjudication as long as the
earlier payment claim had not be previously adjudicated on its merits: Grouteam Pte Ltd v UES
Holdings Pte Ltd [2016] 5 SLR 1011.
26.10.21 In Tiong Seng Contractors v Chuan Lim Construction [2007] 4 SLR(R) 354, it was held that
SOPA applies to both final and interim payment claims. In response to the decision, the use of the term
“Final Claim” in the SIA 7th edition has since been replaced with “Final Account”.
 (e) Adherence to SOPA timelines
26.10.25  It is important that for the service of the payment claim to comply with the contractual
deadline as required by section 10(2)(a) of SOPA. Where the contract provides for the service of
payment claims on a stipulated date, this means service on that date and not service by that date:
Audi Construction, supra. In Shin Khai Construction Pte Ltd v FL Wong Construction Pte Ltd [2013]
SGHCR 4, it was held that an adjudication determination must be set aside if the adjudication
application was lodged later than the period stipulated in s 13(3) of the SOPA. Public holidays,
consistent with the statutory definition of “day”, should be excluded for the purpose of computing the
timelines: UES Holdings Pte Ltd v KH Foges Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 114. However, where the parties
employed the term “calendar days” instead of “days” in the contract to describe the timelines, eect
may be given to the parties’ choice for the purpose of establishing whether the relevant timeline has
been complied with.
(f) Adjudication review application
26.10.26  Under section 18(2) of SOPA, only an aggrieved respondent is entitled to lodge an
adjudication review application.  Once an application is made for adjudication review, the entire
adjudication determination can be reviewed by the review adjudicator and the adjudication review is
not limited to only matters referred to by the aggrieved respondent for review: Ang Cheng Guan
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
28 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construction Pte Ltd v Corporate Residence Pte Ltd [2017] 3 SLR 988.
26.10.27  Review adjudicators have the same powers as adjudicators under section 19(4), SOPA and
are entitled to reconsider the findings of facts and well as the application of legal principles to those
findings of fact: CMC Ravenna Singapore Branch v CGW Construction & Engineering (S) Pte Ltd [2018] 3
SLR 503.
(g)  Enforcement and setting aside
26.10.28  A disputed and an unadjudicated set-o cannot be raised against an adjudicated amount in
enforcement proceedings; section 27 of SOPA comtemplates an actual payment: AES Façade Pte
Ltd v Wyse Pte Ltd and another [2017] SGHC 171. The court’s power to set aside an adjudication
determination does not derive from SOPA as section 27 only deals with the right of a successful
claimant to enforce the determination as a judgment of the court. The power of the court to set aside
an an adjudictor’s determination is a common law power: Citiwall Safety Glass Pte Ltd v Mansource
Interior Pte Ltd [2015] 1 SLR 797.  In a setting aside application, the court does not review the merits of
the adjudication determination: Hauslab Design & Build Pte Ltd v Vinod Kumar Ramgopal Didwania
[2017] 3 SLR 103.  The court may partially set aside a determination for jurisdictional error without
having to set aside or undermine the enforceability of the rest of the determination. Thus, a finding
that an adjudicator’s determination on the retention sum is null and void would not render nullify the
entire determination: Rong Shun Engineering & Construction Pte Ltd v CP Ong Construction Pte Ltd
[2017] 4 SLR 359.
C. Building and Construction Industry Bill 2018
26.10.28  The Building and Construction Industry Bill which makes a number of important changes to
SOPA was passed on 2 October 2018  but at the time of writing, these changes are not yet in operation. 
With the amendments, there will be changes to the scope of SOPA aecting (a) construction contracts
that have been terminated and (b) contracts for the prefabrication of works. Loss or expenses claim
will be restricted to the circumstances specified. The timeline for a payment claim and the validity of 
“repeat” payment claims and final payment claims  are also being clarified. The 6-year limitation
period for the service of a payment claim for both a supply and construction contracts has been
reduced. For payment responses, the time to provide a payment response will be increased from 7 to
14 days from the service of the payment claim. Subject to the exceptions specified, late objections by
respondents in the adjudication response are to be prohibited. There are also provisions aecting
applications to set aside determinations, the rate of interest payable in the unpaid amount and a right
to review determinations that will be given to the claimant that is currently available only to the
respondent.
Updated as at 4 March 2019
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
29 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
By:
George Tan
Consultant
Chan Neo LLP
103646
Tags: Construction & Infrastructure
Ch. 26 Building and Construction Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
30 of 30
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
