Ch. 29 Land Law
SECTION 1 INTRODUCTION
29.1.1 Land law in Singapore is based on English land law. English land law was received
here together with other English law and doctrines by virtue of the Second Charter of
Justice 1826. This provided for the English doctrines of tenure and estates and other real
property concepts to apply in Singapore. It was, however, applied subject to such local
modiﬁcations that were considered necessary to prevent any injustice or oppression. In
this way, English common law rules were adapted to accommodate local religious rules
as well as local Chinese family customs.
29.1.2 The Application of English Law Act 1993 continued the application of such English
law so far as it was part of Singapore law immediately before 12 November 1993 as well
as clariﬁed its application. One of the ways this was done was by listing the provisions of
English statutes that still formed part of Singapore law thereby removing doubts about
the extent of their applicability.
29.1.3 Early post-1826 statutes made minor changes to the land law in Singapore in a
piecemeal way but later legislation made more substantial changes.
29.1.4 The Torrens system of land registration from Australia was implemented locally by
the Land Titles Ordinance of 1956 and improved upon through subsequent amendments.
In fact, a leading English land law professor has described it as ‘one of the better variants
of the Torrens model to be found anywhere in the common law world’. Land in
Singapore was progressively converted from the older system of registration under the
Registration of Deeds Act over the years and the project to convert all land to the Torrens
system was largely completed by 31 December 2002. During the conversion, some
existing interests took on new qualities. For example, mortgages registered under the
older system are notiﬁed in the new land title document and deemed by law to be a
registered mortgage under the Land Titles Act. For practical reasons, the rest of this
chapter will proceed mainly on the basis of land under the Land Titles Act. Another
major change was the passing of the Land Titles (Strata) Act of 1967 to facilitate the
ownership and maintenance of ﬂats and the buildings they are located in. The
reclamation of land in Singapore was facilitated by amendments to the Foreshores
Ordinance in 1964 to provide that there shall be no compensation as of right in respect of
any land or any interest in land aﬀected by the execution of land reclamation works.
29.1.5 After independence in 1965, despite a recommendation of a Constitutional
Commission, no constitutional right to property was enacted. In addition, the Land
Acquisition Act 1966 was passed to facilitate the compulsory acquisition of land for
public purposes without placing a heavy ﬁnancial burden on Singapore as a newly
independent and developing country. The previous bill for the Land Acquisition Act 1966
actually faced constitutional diﬃculties when it was introduced in 1964 because
Singapore was then part of the Federation of Malaysia and there was a constitutional
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
1 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
right to property in the Federation’s Constitution. The Land Acquisition Act 1966 did not
follow Western models that compensated based on the potential value of the land and
instead provided for compensation on the basis of the acquired land’s pre-development
value. For many years, this value was ﬁxed at no higher than the market value of the
acquired land as at November 30, 1973. However, the Land Acquisition Act has been
amended a number of times over the years and in 2007, a major amendment provided
for compensation based on the prevailing market value of the acquired land.
29.1.6 In 2001, the Singapore Land Authority was constituted as the statutory authority
with responsibility for land matters in Singapore. Its wide-ranging functions include
responsibility for land registration, compulsory acquisition and the administration of
state land.
SECTION 2 LAND & LAND USE
29.2.1 Land may be deﬁned diﬀerently in diﬀerent statutes so it is important to consider
the context of the matter. The deﬁnition of land may also include other interests (e.g. a
right to support) in addition to the physical parcel of land.
29.2.2 English land law rules concerning ﬁxtures applies to land in Singapore as well.
Consequently, a chattel (i.e. movable property) can become part of the land under certain
circumstances as in the case of Gebrueder Buehler AG v Peter Chi Man Kwong [1988] 1 MLJ
356 where equipment installed in a factory was held to become part of the land.
29.2.3 Recent changes to legislation have provided that the deﬁnition of land in Singapore
would include so much of subterranean space below the land reasonably necessary for
its use and enjoyment to a depth of 30 metres below the Singapore Height Datum (a level
pegged to the historical mean sea level) unless otherwise speciﬁed in the title.
(1) Government Land Sales Programme
29.2.4 The Singapore government regularly sells land through the Government Land
Sales Programme for commercial, hotel, private residential and industrial developments
by the private sector in line with its planning strategies. The Urban Redevelopment
Authority is the Singapore government’s main land sales agent but other bodies like the
Singapore Land Authority and the Jurong Town Corporation also act as land sales agents
for the government.
(2) Public housing
29.2.5 Public housing comes under the purview of the Housing and Development Board, a
statutory body set up under the Housing and Development Act. It implements the
housing policies of the Singapore government including the government’s ‘Home
Ownership Scheme’ which currently has about 80 per cent of the Singapore resident
population living in HDB sold ﬂats. The HDB also provides ﬂats for rental purposes and a
very small percentage of the Singapore resident population live in HDB rental ﬂats.
29.2.6 As HDB ﬂats are subsidised, there are stringent criteria for the purchase or rental
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
2 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of HDB ﬂats. Depending on the type of ﬂat concerned, the requirements currently include
Singapore citizenship, family nucleus, age, income and non-ownership of other
residential property, building or land. There is also an Ethnic Integration Policy
(implemented to promote racial integration and harmony) as well as a Singapore
Permanent Resident Quota for permanent resident families buying resale HDB ﬂats. The
Ethnic Integration Policy prevents the formation of racial enclaves by ensuring a
balanced ethnic mix among the various ethnic communities while the Singapore
Permanent Resident Quota prevents similar enclaves among permanent residents. The
Singapore Permanent Resident Quota also ensures that permanent resident families can
integrate into the local community for the purposes of social cohesion. HDB ﬂat
purchasers have many obligations under the terms of their HDB lease. These include the
requirement for continuous occupation, proper use and the prohibition against
subletting with prior approval.
(3) Executive Condominium (EC)
29.2.7 The Executive Condominium is a hybrid property that comes under the Executive
Condominium Scheme Act created to satisfy the desire for the ownership of private
property. The purchaser will get a subsidiary strata certiﬁcate of title just like an owner
of a private condominium unit. However, there are stringent eligibility conditions (many
similar to those for HDB ﬂats) for their purchase. After occupying for the minimum
occupation period of ﬁve years, most of the restrictions are removed and the ﬂat may be
sold. However, it may only be sold to a Singapore citizen or permanent resident from the
6th to the 10th year. From the 11th year onwards, it may be sold like any other private
condominium unit.
(4) Residential property
29.2.8 The purchase of residential property that come under the Residential Property is
basically conﬁned to Singapore citizens and approved purchasers. These include
residential land, residential houses, strata landed houses (that are not within approved
condominium developments) and shophouses (for non-commercial use). However, a
foreign person may purchase certain residential properties without approval including a
condominium unit, a ﬂat unit and strata landed houses (that are within approved
condominium developments).
29.2.9 Singapore companies and Singapore limited liability partnerships where not all
the directors, members and partners are Singapore citizens are also restricted from
acquiring residential property aﬀected by the Residential Property Act without the
relevant approval.
29.2.10 Purchasers who are not exempted from the Residential Property Act but who are
housing developers intending to purchase the residential property to develop or
redevelop may apply for speciﬁc approval (called a qualifying certiﬁcate) to do so under
section 31 of the Residential Property Act. However, such approval comes with certain
conditions including the requirement to complete building and selling all the units
within speciﬁed time periods. There are also provisions for the payment of extension
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
3 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
charges for extending any such period as well for the forfeiture of the security for the
breach of approval conditions.
(5) Planning Act, zoning and use
29.2.11 The control of land use, planning and development comes under the Planning Act
and the Act provides for a statutory land use plan called the Master Plan that is
periodically updated. Enacted originally as the Planning Ordinance of 1960, the Act was
based on the UK Town and Country Planning Act 1947. The latest version of the Master
Plan is the Master Plan 2014 that was gazetted on 6 June 2014. The Planning Act covers
activities on land that require permission such as development, conservation or
subdivision and its reach can be very wide. For example, the display of advertisements in
any external part of a building not normally used for that purpose involves a material
change in the use of the building that requires permission under the Act. A development
charge is payable when planning permission is granted to carry out development
projects that increase the value of the land e.g. rezoning the land to a higher value use.
SECTION 3 ESTATES & INTERESTS IN LAND
29.3.1 Due to the feudal origins of land law that applies in Singapore, all land ultimately
belongs to the state and other persons can only own an estate or some lesser interest in
the land. Basically, 5 types of grants of land may be made by the state under the State
Lands Act:
1. estates in fee simple;
2. estates in perpetuity;
3. leases;
4. temporary occupation licences; and
5. tenancy agreements.
29.3.2 New grants of estates in fee simple (the largest possible English estate of indeﬁnite
duration) are only made in the limited circumstances allowed e.g. as a regrant after the
surrender of an existing estate in fee simple for subdivision purposes. An estate in
perpetuity (a statutory rather than a common law estate) is of unlimited duration like the
estate in fee simple. However, such estates are subject to a number of covenants and
conditions e.g. the payment of any applicable rent. The leases created under the State
Lands Act are also subject to various terms and conditions, many of which are similar to
those that apply to estates in perpetuity. Temporary occupation licences and tenancy
agreements are subject to many similar conditions under the State Lands Rules e.g. the
Collector of Land Revenue may revoke a temporary occupation licence or determine a
tenancy agreement at any time. However, the temporary occupation licence does not
create a tenancy or give exclusive right to possession. The main diﬀerences between a
tenancy agreement with the state and a state lease appears to be the term limit of 3 years
and the fact that a tenancy agreement is not considered a disposal of land that requires
the President’s approval.
29.3.3 In general, smaller estates or interests may be carved out of larger estates e.g. the
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
4 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
owner of an estate in fee simple may grant a lease of 99 years to a lessee. However, the
creation of some estates or interests may require prior written approval from the
relevant authority e.g. subdivision approval under the Planning Act is required for the
creation of certain leases.
29.3.4 A further point to note is that if the interest created is not registrable (e.g. an
equitable mortgage) or does not comply with the applicable prescribed form to enable its
registration (e.g. a lease that is not in the form prescribed under the Land Titles Rules), it
may then only be notiﬁed on the land register through the registration of a caveat.
(1) Strata Title
29.3.5 The Land Titles (Strata) Act facilitates the ownership of ﬂats and communal living.
Basically, a development or building may be subdivided into strata units that are capable
of being separately owned (by subsidiary proprietors) as well as common areas called
common property that are used together with other subsidiary proprietors. A strata unit
is in eﬀect a deﬁned space that may be below, on or above the surface of the land that is
marked out on a strata title plan. A legal entity called a management corporation is
constituted to control as well as maintain the common property. The management
corporation is funded through contributions made by the subsidiary proprietors who
hold the common property as tenants in common in proportion to the share value stated
in their subsidiary strata certiﬁcates of title.
(2) Abolition of Adverse Possession
29.3.6 The acquisition of title to land through adverse possession was abolished with
eﬀect from 1 March 1994 and section 50 of the Land Titles Act provides that no title may
be acquired by adverse possession except for the limited cases saved by the transitional
provisions of the Act.
SECTION 4 SOME INTERESTS IN LAND
A. Leases, Licences, Easements and Restrictions
29.4.1 A lease is basically an estate in land whereby a landowner (usually called the
lessor or the landlord) grants another person (usually called the lessee or the tenant) the
right to exclusive possession and use of his land in return for a monetary consideration
called rent. The rights and duties of the two parties would be determined by the
agreement between them and would usually be reﬂected in a document called a lease or
tenancy agreement.
29.4.2 If the term of the lease exceeds 7 years (including the extended term allowed by an
option to renew), it needs be registered under the Land Titles Act in the prescribed form
to be eﬀectual – see section 45 of the Land Titles Act.
29.4.3 If the lease does not exceed 7 years (including the extended term allowed by an
option to renew), it cannot be registered but it may be notiﬁed through the registration of
a caveat. This kind of lease will bind a purchaser of the land provided the lessee is in
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
5 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
occupation at the time the purchaser is registered as the proprietor – see section 46(1) (c)
(vi) of the Land Titles Act.
29.4.4 A lease that exceeds 7 years not in the prescribed form may also be notiﬁed
through the registration of a caveat but such a lease can only considered an equitable
lease based on an enforceable agreement. There are implied powers in favour of lessors
in registered leases e.g. the power to enter the leased premises twice a year to inspect its
state of repair and to require the lessee to repair any defect – see section 93(1) (a) of the
Land Titles Act.
29.4.5 A licence is not an estate in land and ‘only makes an action lawful which, without
it, had been unlawful’ according to Vaughan CJ in the famous English case of Thomas v
Sorrell (1673) Vaugh 330. It can sometimes be diﬃcult to determine whether an occupier
of land is there as a licensee or a lessee. Generally, it will depend on the relevant
intention.
29.4.6 According to section 95(2) of the Land Titles Act, the Registrar of Titles shall not
notify a licence on the land-register. However, licences relating to the use or enjoyment of
land that are legally binding on the assignees of the licensor are deemed to be interests in
land capable of supporting the registration of a caveat.
29.4.7 An easement is an interest in land that gives a landowner a right or rights over the
land belonging to another person. A common example is an easement giving a right of
way. Under the Land Titles Act, an easement is a legal interest that generally has to be
registered or it will not pass any interest in the land. This may be done through an
easement in the prescribed form or by appropriate words in the instrument of transfer
or instrument of lease. Certain easements may also be implied by statute e.g. there are
implied easements for the passage of water, electricity, drainage, gas and sewerage in
respect of each lot of land that forms part of the same development under section 98 of
the Land Titles Act.
29.4.8 A restrictive covenant or similar burden on the land may be registered as a
restriction under the Land Tiles Act and notiﬁed on the land-register. However, unlike
common law restrictive covenants (that have diﬀerent life spans depending on the
circumstances), a restriction has a life span of 20 years from the entry of the notiﬁcation
on the land-register unless it has been extended.
SECTION 5 SECURITY INTERESTS IN LAND
A. Mortgages and Charges
29.5.1 The two main security instruments provided by the Land Titles Act are the
mortgage and the charge. Both have to be in the prescribed form to be registrable.
Failure to register will mean that they may not be fully eﬀectual.
29.5.2 Basically the instrument of mortgage secures the payment of a debt but it does not
operate as a transfer of property like a common law mortgage and only takes eﬀect as a
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
6 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
security. However, the registered mortgagee is given the common law mortgagee’s right
to foreclose by statute.
29.5.3 The instrument of charge secures payment of a rentcharge, annuity or other
periodical sum, or of any money other than a debt. The registered chargee, like the
registered mortgagee, has a number of rights including the right of entry to possession as
well as a right of sale.
29.5.4 Generally, while exercising the power of sale, the mortgagee has a duty to act in
good faith and to take reasonable steps to obtain the true market value of the mortgaged
property at the date of the sale – see How Seen Ghee v Development Bank of Singapore Ltd
[1994] 1 SLR 526.
29.5.5 The Land Titles Act also provides for the registration of submortgages. A
submortgage is deﬁned to mean ‘the mortgage of a mortgage and the mortgage of a
charge’ under section 71 of the Land Titles Act.
29.5.6 The taking of further advances or further credit is allowed under section 80 of the
Land Titles Act subject to the conditions provided.
29.5.7 Equitable security interests like mortgages and charges that are not registrable
because they do not comply with the prescribed form may be notiﬁed on the land
register through the registration of caveats.
29.5.8 With respect to registered mortgages and charges, their priority is determined by
their date of registration. The priority of unregistered security interests (e.g. an equitable
mortgage by way of a mortgage executed in escrow) are determined through the date of
registration of the related caveats.
SECTION 6 CONTRACTS RELATING TO THE SALE OF LAND
29.6.1 In general, in a contract for the sale and purchase of property, there must be
certainty as to the parties, the property as well as the price (otherwise known as the
three Ps). Section 6(d) of the Civil Law Act requires such sale agreements to be in writing
(or be the subject of a memorandum or note in writing) and signed by the party to be
charged in order to be enforceable. The Singapore High Court has recognised electronic
correspondence to be writing that would satisfy the section – see SM Integrated
Transware Pte Ltd v Schenker Singapore (Pte) Ltd [2005] SGHC 58.
29.6.2 In the absence of such an agreement, memorandum or note, it might be possible to
rely on the equitable doctrine of part performance under the right circumstances – see
Joseph Mathew v Singh Chiranjeev [2010] 1 SLR 338. On the other hand, as shown in the
Court of Appeal decision in Ting Siew May v Boon Lay Choo [2014] SGCA 28, an agreement
may be rendered void or unenforceable by reason of illegality.
29.6.3 For properties that are being developed or built for sale by property developers,
there are statutory safeguards to protect purchasers.
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
7 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
29.6.4 The Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) Act governs residential property
developers while the Sale of Commercial Properties Act deals with developers of non-
residential property developments.
29.6.5 Under the Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) Act, the developers of all
developments of more than four units of housing accommodation are required to be
licensed. The deﬁnition of housing developer is wide and would include persons who
ﬁnance the development. Generally, such developers are only allowed to sell units in
their development upon the grant of certain approvals (including building plan and
subdivision approvals). The sale must follow terms and conditions in prescribed
contractual documents that are fair to purchaser and progress payments under the sale
are required to be paid into special project accounts that are regulated under the rules
passed pursuant to the Act. There are also provisions on dealing with necessary
disclosures as well as regulating the developers’ advertisements.
29.6.6 The Sale of Commercial Properties Act regulates the sale by a property developer
of units in a non-residential development of more than four units. It also provides for
standard contractual documents (under the Sale of Commercial Properties Rules) that the
developer has to follow when selling to a purchaser and no variance is allowed without
the relevant prior written approval. All terms that are inconsistent with the prescribed
terms and conditions are null and void to the extent of the inconsistency.
SECTION 7 REGISTRATION OF TRANSFERS OF INTERESTS IN LAND
29.7.1 Transactions relating to interests in land under the Land Titles Act are registered
through prescribed forms. Subsequently, a memorial of the important details is entered
in the appropriate folio of the land register.
29.7.2 The Singapore Land Titles Registry has been moving towards a fully electronic
environment and a computerisation of its records in recent years. It has also
progressively required more documents to be lodged through the Singapore Land
Authority’s web-based electronic lodgment system, Singapore Titles Automated
Registration System (or STARS).
29.7.3 Changes and improvements to the land registration system in Singapore have not
gone unnoticed. In the World Bank Doing Business annual reports, Singapore’s global
ranking in registering properties has been improving over the years. In 2012, Singapore
was ranked 36th, in 2014, the country was ranked 24th and in 2018, it was ranked 21st.
29.7.4 Essentially, any person who becomes the registered proprietor of land under the
Land Titles Act holds the land free from all ‘encumbrances, liens, estates and interests
whatsoever’, except those that are registered or notiﬁed or those that are provided by
law e.g. a statutory easement or a statutory charge. Consequently, the title or estate of the
registered proprietor is often described as paramount or indefeasible. However, there are
a number of exceptions to indefeasibility e.g. fraud or forgery to which the registered
proprietor or his agent was a party.
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
8 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
29.7.5 Owners of interests in land that do not comply with the prescribed forms or that
are unregistrable (like beneﬁcial ownership under a trust of land) may notify them on
the land register by the lodging of caveats. A caveat does not create an interest in land
but it generally gives that interest notiﬁed by the caveat priority over any other
unregistered interested not so protected at the time the caveat was entered. The life span
of a caveat is generally ﬁve years but an extension may be lodged before the ﬁve years
lapse.
(1) Assurance fund
29.7.6 The eﬀect of the various legislative provisions basically means that the Singapore
Land Authority as the national land registration authority issues and guarantees land
titles. For landowners unfairly deprived of their rightful interests through the operation
of the statute, there is possible recourse to compensation under an assurance fund
established under the Land Titles Act. The fund is ﬁnanced mainly from a portion of the
fees collected by the Registrar of Titles under the Act. If the assurance fund is inadequate,
the shortfall may be paid out from the Consolidated Fund.
Updated as of 5 January 2019
By: Richard Ming Kirk Tan
Consultant
Morgan Lewis Stamford LLC
Ch. 28 Income Taxation Ch. 30 Bankruptcy and Insolvency
Print
106970
Tags: Property Law
Ch. 29 Land Law
https://www.singaporelawwatch.sg/About-Singapore-Law...
9 of 9
4/21/25, 21:57

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
