THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
CONTROL OF RENT ACT
(CHAPTER 58)
1970 Ed. Cap. 266 
Ordinance 
22 of 1953
Amended by 
42 of 1959 
72 of 1959
4 of 1960
26 of 1960 
1 of 1961 
S(NS) 177/59 
S(NS) 178/59 
Sp S 47/63
REVISED EDITION 1985
PRINTED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, SINGAPORE 
1986

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHAPTER 58
1985 Ed.
Control of Rent Act
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
1. 
Short title.
2. 
Interpretation.
Part I
Rent and Premises
3. 
Restriction on increasing rent.
4. 
Charging of premium prohibited.
5. 
Penalty.
6. 
Statement of standard rent to be supplied by landlord.
7. 
Permitted increase of rent.
Part II
Rent Conciliation Board
8. 
Establishment of Rent Conciliation Board.
9. 
Powers of Board.
10. 
Orders and Rules of Board to be published.
11. 
Review of orders of Board.
12. 
Power of Board to state special case for decision of High Court.
13. 
High Court may call for proceedings of Board.
Part III
Recovery of Possession
14. 
Restriction on right to possession.
15. 
Cases where order or judgment referred to in section 14 may be 
made.
16. 
Cases where order or judgment referred to in section 14 may be 
made in respect of domestic premises.
17. 
Payment of compensation to tenant in certain specified cases.
18. 
Power of court to impose conditions.
19. 
Compensation.
20. 
Shared accommodation deemed to be premises comprised in a 
tenancy.
21. 
Statement of subletting to be supplied.
22. 
Apportionment of rent in case of subletting.
23. 
Apportionment or determination.
1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Section
24. 
Appeal from apportionment on subletting.
25. 
Penalty.
26. 
Effect of order of possession on sub-tenants.
Part IV
Statutory Tenants
27. 
Statutory tenants.
28. Terms of statutory tenancy.
Part V 
General
29. 
Section 17 (4) of Civil Law Act not to apply.
30. 
Exemptions.
31. 
Application to tenancies to which Government is not a party. 
The Schedule — Extent of increase.
Short title.
Inter­
pretation.
24/47.
An Act to control the rents of certain premises and the right 
to recover possession of those premises and matters 
incidental thereto.
[20th July 1953]
1. This Act may be cited as the Control of Rent Act.
2. In this Act except where the context otherwise 
requires —
“Board” means the Rent Conciliation Board con­
stituted under the provisions of the Control of Rent 
Ordinance 1947 or this Act, as the case may be;
“domestic premises” means a building or part of a 
building used wholly or chiefly as a separate 
dwelling;
“landlord” means the landlord of premises in respect of 
which a tenancy exists and includes the landlord of a 
statutory tenant and in the case of a subtenancy a 
tenant who sublets the premises or any part thereof;
“member of his family” means —
(a) the husband or widower;
(b) the wife or widow;
(c) the father or mother; or
(d) a son or daughter either of whom is over 16 
years of age; and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
where the tenancy has not been determined 
according to law includes a legal personal repre­
sentative;
“order of the Board” means the last order of the Board 
by which the rent of the premises is fixed;
“premises” means any dwelling-house, flat, factory, 
warehouse, office, counting house, shop, school 
and any other building whether of permanent or 
temporary construction in which persons are 
employed or work and any part of any such 
building let or sublet separately and includes any 
land whereon any such building is or has been 
erected with the consent of the landlord but does 
not include any new building built or completed 
after 7th September 1947;
“rent” includes any sum paid as rent or hire for the use 
of furniture where premises are let furnished or 
where premises are let and the furniture therein is 
hired by the landlord to the tenant;
“standard rent” means —
(a) if the rent has been fixed by the Board prior 
to the commencement of this Act, the 
rent so fixed;
(b) if the rent has not been fixed by the Board 
prior to the commencement of this Act, 
the rent of the premises as at 1st August 
1939; or in the case of premises which 
were then unlet, unoccupied or unbuilt, 
the rent at which the premises were first 
let after 1st August 1939;
“tenancy” means any lease, demise, letting or holding 
of premises whether in writing or otherwise, by 
virtue whereof the relationship of landlord and 
tenant is created, but does not include the letting 
or hiring of furnished rooms with board;
“tenant” means the tenant of premises in respect of 
which a tenancy exists and includes a statutory 
tenant and in the case of a sub-tenancy a sub-­
tenant to whom the premises or part thereof is 
sublet.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Restriction 
on increasing 
rent.
Part I
Rent and Premises
3.—(1) Subject to this Act it shall be unlawful for any 
landlord to increase or attempt to increase or to receive or 
recover a rent in respect of any tenancy of premises in 
excess of the rent fixed by an order of the Board, or, if no 
order has been made, in excess of the standard rent.
(2) Where any premises are let furnished and no order of 
the Board exists fixing the combined rent of the premises 
and furniture, the landlord shall not receive or recover from 
the tenant in respect of the combined rent of the premises 
and furniture a sum exceeding the standard rent of the 
premises unfurnished, with the addition of:
(a) 50% of the standard rent; or
(b) a monthly rental to be assessed at one-sixtieth of 
the true value of the furniture,
whichever is less.
(3) Where as a result of any transfer to a tenant of any 
burden or liability previously borne by the landlord, the 
terms on which premises are held are on the whole less 
favourable to the tenant than the previous terms, the rent 
shall be deemed to be increased whether or not the sum 
periodically payable by way of rent is increased.
(4) A tenant who has paid his landlord a sum in excess of 
the rent which may lawfully be received under this section 
may recover that sum from the landlord.
Charging of 
premium 
prohibited.
Penalty.
4. No person shall as a condition of the grant, renewal, 
transfer or continuance of a tenancy require the payment of 
any fine, premium or other like sum or the giving of any 
other valuable consideration in addition to the rent and any 
sum or other valuable consideration paid or given in con­
travention of this section shall be recoverable by the person 
by whom it was made or given.
5. —(1) Any person who contravenes section 3 or 4 shall 
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a 
fine not exceeding $1,000 and for a second or subsequent 
offence shall be liable to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to 
imprisonment which may extend to 6 months or to both.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) No proceedings shall be taken under this section 
without the previous sanction in writing of the President of 
the Board.
(3) In any prosecution for an offence under this section it 
shall be a good defence if it is proved to the satisfaction of 
the court that the accused had reasonable grounds for 
believing that he was not acting in contravention of section 3 
or 4, as the case may be.
6. A landlord shall on being requested in writing by his 
tenant supply him with a statement in writing specifying the 
standard rent of the premises and if without reasonable 
excuse he fails within 14 days to do so, or supplies a 
statement which is false in any material particular, he shall 
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
before a Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding $100.
7. —(1) A landlord may increase the rent of the premises 
let by him only in the cases and to the extent following:
(a) where the current rent is below the standard rent, 
to the extent of the difference between those 
rents;
(b) where the current rent is below the rent fixed by an
order of the Board, to the extent of the 
difference between those rents;
(c) where the premises were let on or before 1st
January 1941, and there has been no increase of 
rent subsequent to that date, to the extent set 
out in the third column of the Schedule in 
respect of the types of premises and the standard 
rents thereof set out adjacent thereto in the first 
and second columns of that Schedule:
Provided that the Board may in any such case 
make an order fixing the rent, and in that event 
the landlord shall not increase the rent above 
the rent so fixed;
(d) where the landlord has after the commencement of
this Act incurred any costs, charges or expenses 
for any improvements to or for the benefit of the 
premises for the purpose of constructing roads, 
sewers or drains or the installation of modern 
sanitation or for any other purpose under and in 
accordance with the provisions of any written
Statement 
of standard 
rent to be 
supplied by 
landlord.
Permitted 
increase 
of rent.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1936 Ed. 
Cap. 133. 
Cap. 254.
Establish­
ment of 
Rent 
Conciliation 
Board.
Cap. 321.
law or by agreement with the tenant, then the 
landlord shall be entitled to increase and receive 
or recover a rent in excess of the standard rent 
the amount of such increase to be fixed by the 
Board on the application of either the landlord 
or the tenant. Any increase of rent fixed by the 
Board under this paragraph shall be in addition 
to any other increase of rent permitted under 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c);
(e) where since 7th September 1947, the rates or the 
property tax payable by the landlord under the 
provisions of the Municipal Ordinance or the 
Property Tax Act, in respect of the premises 
have been increased, to the extent of the 
increase:
Provided that in any case where an increase, 
other than an increase permitted under this 
subsection, has been made to the rent since 7th 
September 1947, a landlord shall not increase 
the rent of the premises under this paragraph 
without the approval of the Board.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve a 
landlord from the necessity of determining the tenancy 
according to law prior to increasing the rent.
Part II
Rent Conciliation Board
8.—(1) A Rent Conciliation Board shall be established 
consisting of a president and such other persons as may be 
appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette.
(2) The appointment of a member of the Board may be 
revoked at any time by the Minister but unless his appoint­
ment is so revoked or he resigns in the meantime he shall 
hold office for a term of one year, and shall be eligible for 
reappointment.
(3) The President of the Board shall possess the qualifi­
cations required of a District Judge by section 9 (3) of the 
Subordinate Courts Act, and shall preside at all sessions of 
the Board.
(4) Three members of the Board of whom the President 
shall be one, shall form a quorum, and the opinion of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
majority of the Board present shall be decisive upon any 
matter, provided that in case of an equality of opinion the 
President of the Board shall give a casting opinion.
(5) The proceedings of the Board shall be open to the 
public and minutes of the Board including a note of any oral 
evidence given before the Board shall be kept by the 
President of the Board.
(6) All summonses and notices, issued under the hand of 
the President of the Board shall be deemed to be issued by 
the Board.
(7) Any interested party may be represented before the 
Board by an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court.
(8) The proceedings of the Board shall be deemed to be 
judicial proceedings and the members of the Board to be 
public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code.
9.—(1) The Board shall have and may exercise the 
following powers:
(a) to hear and determine any application or pro­
ceeding for the purpose of fixing or apportioning 
the rent in respect of a tenancy of premises;
(b) to make orders fixing such rent at a figure equal to, 
below, or above the current or standard rent as 
to the Board may appear just and proper; or to 
refuse to make any such order; and from time to 
time to review, vary or set aside any order made 
by it, as provided in section 11:
Provided that the Board shall not make any 
order under this paragraph fixing the rent in 
respect of the tenancy of any premises at a figure 
which exceeds the current or standard rent 
thereof plus twice the increase of rent permitted 
under section 7 (1) (c);
(c) to approve to the extent appearing to the Board to 
be just and proper any application to increase 
rent made under the proviso to section 7 (1) (e);
(d) to examine any witness on oath, to summon any 
person to appear before it, and to require any 
interested party or witness to produce any rele­
vant document, as the Board may think fit;
Cap. 224.
Powers of 
Board.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(e) subject to the approval of the Minister, to make 
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Act regulating the practice and procedure of the 
Board.
(2) Notwithstanding section 7 (1) (d) or subsec­
tion (1) (b) where a landlord has since 1st January 1951 
incurred or hereafter incurs expenditure in the improve­
ment or structural alteration of premises (not including 
expenditure on decoration or ordinary repairs) the Board 
shall in fixing the rent of a tenancy of such premises take 
such expenditure into consideration so as to allow the 
landlord a reasonable return in respect thereof.
(3) Any landlord or tenant or other person interested 
may apply to the Board for an order fixing the rent in 
respect of the tenancy of premises of which he is landlord or 
tenant or in which he is interested. If the application is by 
the landlord, it shall be duly served on the tenant as 
respondent; if the application is by the tenant it shall be duly 
served on the landlord as respondent; if the application is by 
some other interested person it shall be served on both the 
landlord and the tenant as respondents.
(4) Where the premises concerned in any application or 
proceedings before the Board are sublet by the tenant either 
wholly or in part, the Board may in addition to fixing the 
rent in respect of the tenancy of the premises as a whole, 
and subject to section 22, fix the rent of any portion thereof 
which is separately sublet.
(5) Any person claiming to be interested in any 
proceedings before the Board may apply to be made a party 
to the proceedings and the Board shall give all interested 
parties an opportunity of being heard and of producing such 
evidence, oral or documentary, as may appear relevant to 
the Board.
Orders and 
rules of 
Board to 
be published.
10.—(1) All orders of the Board shall be published as 
soon as practicable in the Gazette and may be proved by 
production of the Gazette.
(2) All rules made by the Board under section 9 (1) (e) 
shall be published in the Gazette.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. An order of the Board may be reviewed, varied or set 
aside by the Board in the following cases:
(a) where the facts of the case affecting the question of 
rent have materially altered since the order was 
made;
(b) where the order was made in consequence of any 
fraud, misrepresentation or mistake;
(c) where fresh evidence of a material nature, which 
could not by the exercise of reasonable diligence 
have been produced when the order was made, 
is available;
(d) where the order was made in the absence of any 
necessary or proper party whose absence was 
not due to any default or neglect on his part;
(e) where in the opinion of the Board some substantial 
wrong or miscarriage of justice is occasioned by 
the order.
Review of 
orders of 
Board.
12.—(1) The Board may at any stage of an application or 
proceedings before it, reserve for the consideration of the 
High Court any questions of law arising in the application or 
proceedings, in the form of a special case which shall —
(a) be drawn up by the President of the Board and 
shall set out shortly the facts on which the law is 
to be applied and the question or questions of 
law to be determined;
(b) be sent by the President of the Board to the 
Registrar of the Supreme Court; and
(c) be set down for argument in such manner as the 
High Court directs.
(2) The High Court shall hear and determine the 
question or questions of law arising on the special case and 
shall thereupon remit the matter to the President of the 
Board with the opinion of the Court thereon and that 
opinion shall be binding on the Board.
(3) The costs of the proceedings in the High Court shall 
be in the discretion of the Court and may be dealt with by 
the order of the Court, provided that no member of the 
Board shall be personally liable to any costs in respect 
thereto.
Power of 
Board to 
state special 
case for 
decision of 
High Court.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
High Court 
may call for 
proceedings 
of Board.
13.—(1) The High Court either of its own motion or on 
the application within 14 days of any party aggrieved by a 
decision of the Board on the ground that it is wrong in law, 
may call for the proceedings and the grounds of the order 
and give such orders thereon, either by directing a fresh 
hearing or otherwise, as appears necessary to secure that 
substantial justice is done.
(2) This jurisdiction may be exercised by a single judge.
Restriction 
on right to 
possession.
Cases where 
order or 
judgment 
referred to 
in section 14 
may be 
made.
Part III
Recovery of Possession
14. No order or judgment for the recovery of possession 
of any premises comprised in a tenancy shall be made or 
given except in the cases set out in this Part.
15. —(1) In the case of all premises such an order or 
judgment as is referred to in section 14 may be made in any 
of the following cases:
(a) where at the date of the notice determining the
tenancy given by the landlord rent lawfully due 
was in arrear for 21 days or upwards after notice 
of demand in writing had been served on the 
tenant and there was no tender thereof at or 
before that date and the court considers it 
reasonable that such an order or judgment be 
made or given;
(b) where any obligation of the tenancy other than the
payment of rent (whether under the contract of 
tenancy or under the provisions of this Act) so 
far as the obligation is consistent with the provi­
sions of this Act, has been broken or not per­
formed by the tenant and the court considers it 
reasonable that such an order or judgment be 
made or given;
(c) where the landlord as a step towards increasing the
rent in pursuance of section 7, has given the 
tenant a notice to quit, and the tenant holds over 
possession at the expiration of the notice 
without paying or agreeing to pay the increased 
rent;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(d) where the tenant or any other person occupying the 
premises under him, has been guilty of conduct 
constituting a nuisance or persistent annoyance 
to persons in the same building; or of using or 
permitting the use of the premises for illegal or 
immoral purposes;
(e) where the condition of the premises has in the 
opinion of the court deteriorated owing to the 
wrongful neglect or default of the tenant; or 
where the tenant has wrongfully caused or 
suffered to be caused substantial damage to the 
premises;
(f) where the tenancy has been determined by notice 
to quit given by the tenant;
(g) where the tenant having sublet the premises or part 
thereof receives in respect of that subletting, 
rents (excluding any municipal services paid by 
the tenant) for any sublet part of the premises in 
excess of the recoverable rent for that part, or 
rents which exceed in the aggregate 110% of the 
recoverable rent paid by the tenant himself 
including the apportioned rental or value of any 
part of the premises retained by the tenant or 
not sublet by him;
(h) where the tenant or any other person occupying the 
premises under him has knowingly committed a 
breach of any written law regulating any 
business carried on upon the premises or of any 
provision of the Environmental Public Health 
Act or the Building Control Act or of any 
regulations made thereunder affecting the 
premises which exposes the landlord to any 
penalty, fine or forfeiture;
(i) where the landlord of the premises reasonably 
requires them for occupation by himself or any 
member of his family or any person for whom he 
holds the premises in trust and the tenancy has 
been determined by not less than one year’s 
notice to quit and there has been no change by 
purchase in the ownership of the premises 
within one year next preceding the date of the 
notice:
Cap. 95.
Cap. 29.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cases where 
order or 
judgment 
referred to 
in section 14 
may be made 
in respect 
of domestic 
premises.
Provided that an order or judgment shall not 
be made or given on any ground specified in this 
paragraph if the court is satisfied that having 
regard to all the circumstances of the case, 
including the question whether other accom­
modation is available for the landlord or the 
tenant, greater hardship would be caused by 
granting an order or judgment than by refusing 
to grant it; and
(j) in any other case where the court considers it 
reasonable that such an order or judgment be 
made or given and is satisfied that suitable 
alternative accommodation is available for the 
tenant or will be available for him when the 
order or judgment takes effect.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) (a) —
(a) a notice of demand shall give the name and address 
of the person, whether he is the landlord or not, 
to whom the rent lawfully due may be tendered 
by the tenant and shall be deemed to have been 
served on the tenant if it has been addressed to 
the tenant at the premises of which he is the 
tenant and sent by prepaid registered post; and
(b) rent shall be deemed to have been tendered if it has 
been sent by prepaid registered post to the 
person named in the notice of demand as the 
person to whom the rent lawfully due may be 
tendered at the address given in the notice.
(3) A landlord shall on the request, whether orally or in 
writing, of his tenant made to the landlord or his agent 
furnish in writing his business or residential address and any 
landlord who fails to comply with any such request shall be 
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine 
not exceeding $100.
16. In the case of any domestic premises such an order or 
judgment as is referred to in section 14 may without 
prejudice to section 15 be made in any of the following 
additional cases:
(a) where the premises were let to the tenant by reason 
of his employment in the service of the landlord, 
and that employment has ceased;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) where the landlord was personally in occupation of
the premises and let them furnished for a term 
during his absence from Singapore, and has 
returned to Singapore and requires the premises 
for reoccupation by himself or any member of 
his family; and
(c) where neither the tenant nor any member of his
family is residing in the premises or any part 
thereof.
17. —(1) Where a landlord has obtained an order or 
judgment for the recovery of possession of premises on any 
of the grounds specified in section 15 (1) (i) or 16 (b) and it 
is subsequently made to appear to the court that the order 
or judgment was obtained by misrepresentation or conceal­
ment of material facts the court may order the landlord to 
pay to the former tenant such sum as appears sufficient as 
compensation for damage or loss sustained by that tenant as 
a result of the order or judgment.
(2) Nothing in section 15 or 16 shall be deemed to relieve 
a landlord from the necessity of determining the tenancy 
according to law.
18. In any application made under this Part the court may 
in its discretion order that in addition to or in substitution 
for any other order which the court may make either party 
shall comply with any conditions, including the execution of 
a money bond by either party in favour of any person which 
the court may think fit to impose for giving effect to the 
purposes of this Act.
19. In any application made under section 15 (1) (e) or 
(h) the court may either in addition to or in substitution for 
any other order make an order providing that the tenant do 
pay compensation for all or any loss or damage caused to 
the landlord and may impose such other conditions as the 
court may think fit to prevent a recurrence of the neglect, 
default or breach complained of.
20. Where a tenant has the exclusive occupation of any 
separate accommodation and the terms on which he holds 
the separate accommodation include the use of other 
accommodation which is shared in common with any other 
person including the landlord then that separate
Payment of 
compensa­
tion to 
tenant in 
certain 
specified 
cases.
Power of 
court to 
impose 
conditions.
Compensa­
tion.
Shared 
accommoda­
tion deemed 
to be 
premises 
comprised in 
a tenancy.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statement of 
subletting to 
be supplied.
Apportion­
ment of rent 
in case of 
subletting.
accommodation shall be deemed to be let or sublet 
separately, and the separate and shared accommodation 
shall both be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be 
premises comprised in the tenancy.
21. Where the tenant of any premises has sublet any part 
thereof the tenant shall within 14 days after the subletting 
supply the landlord with a statement in writing of the 
subletting giving particulars of occupancy, including the 
name of the sub-tenant and the rent charged, and if without 
reasonable excuse he fails to do so or supplies a statement 
which is false in any material particular, he shall be guilty of 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not 
exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding 6 months or to both:
Provided that it shall not be necessary to supply a 
statement of the subletting of any such part as aforesaid 
where the particulars to be given therein as to the rent and 
other conditions of the sub-tenancy would be the same as in 
the last statement supplied in accordance with the require­
ments of this section with respect to a previous subletting of 
that part.
22. —(1) Where the tenant of any premises to which this 
Act applies has sublet any part of those premises then the 
tenant or any sub-tenant of that or of any other part of the 
premises may at any time apply to the Board to apportion 
the rent of the whole premises as between the tenant and all 
the sub-tenants of any part or parts of the whole premises 
and to determine the rent of all or any one or more part or 
parts of the whole premises sublet to any and every sub-­
tenant thereof and the Board shall thereupon make such an 
apportionment and determination:
Provided that the total of the rents payable to the tenant 
by all the sub-tenants shall not in the aggregate exceed 
110% of the rent of the whole premises after making an 
apportioned reduction in respect of any part of the premises 
retained by the tenant or not sublet by him.
(2) When any application is made to the Board under this 
section all sub-tenants of the tenant shall be deemed to be 
interested parties in the proceedings and shall be given an 
opportunity of being heard and of producing such evidence, 
oral or documentary, as appears relevant to the Board, and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
may, if the Board so directs, be joined as parties in the 
proceedings.
23. Where in any proceedings under this Part for the 
recovery of possession of any premises or any part thereof 
or for the ejectment of a tenant or sub-tenant therefrom it 
appears to the court that neither an apportionment of the 
rent as between the premises and any sublet part thereof nor 
a determination of the rent of the sublet part has previously 
been made by the Board or any court, the court may make 
such an apportionment or determination, whether or not an 
order or judgment is given in the proceedings for the 
recovery of possession or the ejectment of the tenant or 
sub-tenant.
Apportion­
ment or 
determina­
tion.
24. Section 13 shall apply to any decision of the Board 
under section 22. Where any apportionment or determina­
tion has been made by any court under section 23, the 
Board shall be bound by that apportionment or determina­
tion.
Appeal from 
apportion­
ment on 
subletting.
25. Where the Board or any court has made any order 
under the provisions of this Act fixing the rent of any sublet 
part of any premises then if after the order the rent charged 
by the landlord for that sublet part is in excess of the rent so 
fixed, the landlord shall, unless he proves that he did not 
know and could not by reasonable enquiry have ascertained 
that the rent charged by him was so in excess as aforesaid or 
that the excess was solely due to an unintentional miscalcu­
lation, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprison­
ment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.
26. —(1) Where any order or judgment for the recovery 
of possession has been obtained against any tenant of 
premises, the order or judgment shall not be enforceable 
against any sub-tenant of the tenant unless the court is 
satisfied that the tenant was prohibited by the terms of his 
tenancy from subletting or that the sub-tenant has used the 
premises for illegal or immoral purposes. Every order or 
judgment for possession made against any tenant shall 
declare whether it shall be enforceable against any sub-­
tenant or not.
Penalty.
Effect of 
order of 
possession on 
sub-tenants.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Any sub-tenant against whom the order or judgment 
is not enforceable shall, if he remains in possession after 
notice of the order or judgment has been served on him, 
cease to be a sub-tenant of the tenant and become a 
statutory tenant of the landlord in respect of the premises 
comprised in his sub-tenancy.
Statutory 
tenants.
Part IV
Statutory Tenants
27. The following persons are statutory tenants under 
this Act:
(a) any tenant of premises who remains in possession 
thereof after the determination by any means of 
his tenancy and who cannot by reason of the 
provisions of this Act be deprived of such pos­
session by his landlord; and
(b) any sub-tenant becoming a statutory tenant under 
and by virtue of any of the provisions of this 
Act.
Terms of 
statutory 
tenancy.
28. A statutory tenant shall hold the premises of the 
landlord upon the following terms and conditions:
(a) he shall be deemed to hold as tenant from month to 
month, and subject thereto, shall observe and 
be entitled to the benefit of all the terms and 
conditions of his original tenancy or sub-­
tenancy, as the case may be, so far as they are 
consistent with the provisions of this Act and 
with a holding from month to month:
Provided that in the case of a sub-tenant 
becoming a statutory tenant such a statutory 
tenant shall in addition hold the premises sub­
ject to any subsisting restrictive covenants con­
tained in the terms and conditions of the tenancy 
between the landlord and the tenant;
(b) his tenancy shall be subject to be determined by 
such notice as would have been required by law 
to determine a monthly tenancy of the premises 
containing no express provision for determina­
tion; and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) he shall be subject to all the rights and powers 
conferred on a landlord under and by virtue of 
the Distress Act.
Part V 
General
29. Section 16 (4) of the Civil Law Act shall not apply to 
a tenant of premises to which this Act applies.
Cap. 84.
30. The President may by notification in the Gazette 
except or exempt any premises or class or group of premises 
from the provisions of this Act, either absolutely or condi­
tionally.
31. Notwithstanding any rule of law whereunder the 
provisions of this Act do not bind the Government they 
apply to any tenancy to which the Government is not a 
party.
Section 16 (4) 
of Civil Law 
Act not to 
apply.
Cap. 43.
Exemptions.
Application 
to tenancies 
to which 
Government 
is not a 
party.
Section 
7 (1) (c).
THE SCHEDULE
Extent of Increase
Type of premises
Standard rent
Per­
centage
Premises used for dwelling purposes
Up to and including 
$35 per month
5
Premises used for dwelling purposes
Above $35 and up to 
$50 per month
10
Premises used for dwelling purposes
Above $50 and up to 
$75 per month
15
Premises used for dwelling purposes
Above $75
20
Premises used for purposes other 
than as dwelling
No limit as to rent
25

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
