 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Authority of Singapore 
December 2020
GUIDELINES ON
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
(ASSET MANAGERS)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
1 
2 
SCOPE 
2 
3 
GOVERNANCE AND STRATEGY 
4 
4 
RESEARCH AND PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION 
6 
5 
PORTFOLIO RISK MANAGEMENT 
8 
6 
STEWARDSHIP 
9 
7 
DISCLOSURE 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
1 
 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 
These Guidelines apply to all holders of a capital markets services licence for fund 
management (“LFMC”) and real estate investment trust (“REIT”) management (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as “asset managers”). The Guidelines aim to enhance the resilience of 
funds (including REITs) and segregated mandates (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“funds/mandates”) that are managed by asset managers, by setting out sound environmental 
risk management practices that asset managers can adopt. 
 
1.2 
MAS recognises that the scale, scope and business models of asset managers and the 
investment strategies that they employ can be different. MAS expects an asset manager’s 
approach to managing and disclosing environmental risk to mature as the methodologies for 
assessing, monitoring and reporting such risk evolve. An asset manager should implement 
these Guidelines in a way that is commensurate with the size and nature of its activities, 
including the investment focus and strategy of its funds/mandates. For avoidance of doubt, 
the Guidelines shall not prohibit or restrict an asset manager from complying with applicable 
laws and discharging their fiduciary duties and other legal obligations to their customers.  
 
1.3 
Asset managers which are part of global groups1 may take guidance from or leverage 
their Group’s environmental risk management governance structure, framework and policies, 
if they have determined that the Group’s governance structure, framework and policies meet 
the principles set out in these Guidelines.  
 
1.4 
MAS is cognisant that asset managers may be appointed to different roles (for 
instance, as an investment manager, sub-manager or advisor) in the management of a 
fund/mandate. The Guidelines would generally be applicable to asset managers that have 
discretionary authority over the investments of the funds/mandates that they are managing. 
Conversely, for asset managers that do not have discretionary authority over the investments 
of the funds/mandates, the Guidelines would not apply.  
 
1.5 
Where asset managers delegate the investment management to sub-managers or 
advisors, asset managers still retain overall responsibility for environmental risk management 
and should convey their expectations on environmental risk management to the sub-
managers or advisors. Asset managers should put in place appropriate processes and 
procedures to assess and monitor the sub-managers’ or advisors’ compliance with the 
expectations set. 
 
1.6 
MAS will update these Guidelines as appropriate to reflect the evolving nature and 
maturity of risk management practices. The examples of environmental risk management 
practices featured in these Guidelines are meant to be illustrative and are not prescriptive or 
exhaustive. 
 
 
1 Group refers to the ultimate holding company, its subsidiaries and any other company or entity treated as part 
of the ultimate holding company’s group of companies according to the Accounting Standards. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
2 
 
 
2 
SCOPE 
 
2.1 
Environmental risk arises from the potential adverse impact of changes in the 
environment on economic activities and human well-being2. Environmental issues that are of 
concern include climate change, loss of biodiversity, pollution and changes in land use. These 
environmental challenges call for urgent collective actions to address environmental risk. 
Climate change stands at the forefront of these concerns, with the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (“IPCC”) estimating that continued carbon emissions in line with historical 
rates would likely lead to global warming of 1.5 oC between 2030 and 20523. There has also 
been a significant rate of decline in biodiversity worldwide, alongside a significant alteration 
of three-quarters of the land and more than 60% of the marine environment, which are 
caused by human actions4. 
 
2.2 
Environmental risk has the potential to financially impact funds/mandates managed 
by asset managers (refer to the diagram below for illustration), through physical and 
transition risk channels5.  
 
a. Physical risk arises from the impact of weather events and long-term or 
widespread environmental changes. For instance, rising frequency and severity of 
extreme weather events can impair the value of assets held by companies, or 
indirectly impact supply chains, thus affecting companies’ operations and 
profitability, and potentially, their viability. Water risk (e.g. water scarcity, 
pollution and droughts) may increase the operating cost of companies in water-
intensive sectors. Investments into these companies can therefore be impaired. 
 
b. Transition risk arises from the process of adjustment to an environmentally 
sustainable economy, including changes in public policies, disruptive technological 
developments, and shifts in consumer and investor preferences. For instance, the 
transition to a low-carbon economy can impair the profitability of companies in 
carbon-intensive businesses. Punitive actions taken against companies that 
pollute the environment (e.g. revocation of operational permits for companies 
involved in open burning practices) can have a material impact on the valuation of 
companies in these sectors and result in stranded assets6. Investment portfolios 
 
2 Based on the concept of natural capital, nature comprises of a stock of resources (e.g. water, forest, air), which 
provides ecosystem services (e.g. food, coastal protection, absorption of pollution) that underpin economic 
activities and human well-being. Drivers of environmental changes can adversely impact natural capital and 
disrupt the provision of ecosystem services, leading to reduced flow of benefits to the economy and people. 
3 IPCC, Global Warming of 1.5 degrees, Summary for Policymakers, 2018. 
4 Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, Global Assessment Report 
on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, 2019. 
5 These channels are more commonly associated with climate change given the current focus on transition to a 
low-carbon economy. Where applicable, asset managers should also consider physical and transition risk 
channels in relation to other aspects of environmental risk beyond climate change, as methodologies for 
managing and disclosing such risks continue to evolve. 
6 Defined by the International Energy Agency to refer to “investments which are made but which, at some time 
prior to the end of their economic life (as assumed at the investment decision point), are no longer able to earn 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
3 
 
managed by asset managers may also be exposed to volatility and downside risk 
where business models are disrupted by changes in market or consumer demands 
to address environmental impact. 
 
2.3 
Reputational risk can arise when asset managers invest into companies that carry out 
business activities which have a negative impact on the environment. Negative perception of 
asset managers’ business practices can adversely affect their abilities to maintain or grow 
their assets under management.   
 
Potential financial and reputational impact of environmental risk on funds and asset 
managers 
 
 
 
2.4 
Environmental risk can vary by sector, geography, time horizon and other factors. As 
such, the extent of its relevance and materiality will vary depending on the investment 
horizon, focus, and strategy of the funds/mandates. For instance, environmental risk can be 
more significant in sectors that consume more natural resources and produce more 
greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In terms of geography, certain countries can be more 
exposed to extreme weather events arising from climate change compared to others. 
Environmental risk, in particular physical risk, is likely to materialise over a longer time horizon. 
Hence, perceived future risk can be underestimated in the short term, and current asset 
valuations may hence be exposed to unexpected adjustments in years to come. 
 
2.5 
It is crucial for asset managers to ensure the resilience of their customers’ assets 
against the impact of environmental risk. Besides implementing robust environmental risk 
management policies and processes, asset managers can play a key role in the transition 
towards an environmentally sustainable economy by channelling capital through their green 
investment activities. A gradual and smooth transition would alleviate physical and transition 
risks, by reducing the probability of a “too little, too late” scenario, where physical costs of 
environmental changes may be exacerbated, and policymakers would need to implement 
mitigation measures in a belated and disruptive manner. Engaging in green investment 
activities would also mitigate reputational risk for asset managers. Asset managers can also 
 
an economic return, as a result of changes in the market and regulatory environment brought about by climate 
policy”. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
4 
 
contribute to global collective action by engaging with stakeholders such as regulators, rating 
agencies, academia and civil society, to promote mutual understanding on environmental 
issues across sectors and geographies. 
3 
GOVERNANCE AND STRATEGY 
 
3.1 
The Board of Directors (“Board”) and senior management play critical roles in 
determining the asset manager’s strategies, business plans and product offerings. These 
include identifying environmental risks and opportunities over the short and long term and 
evaluating the actual and potential impact of these risks and opportunities on the asset 
manager’s strategies, business plans and products. These should also take into consideration 
the asset manager’s responses to the objectives set out under international agreements such 
as the Paris Agreement, as well as national policies. In this regard, the Board and senior 
management should set the tone and articulate the asset manager’s approach on 
environmental risk management for the different asset classes it invests in and investment 
strategies that it employs. 
 
3.2 
Regulation 13(B)(1)(a) of the SF(LCB)R require all LFMCs to put in place a risk 
management framework to identify, address and monitor the risks associated with customers’ 
assets that they manage, which is appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of the 
assets. Regulation 13 of the SF(LCB)R also requires REIT managers to identify, address and 
monitor the risks associated with its business activities in a manner that is commensurate 
with their nature, scale and complexity. Such risks include environmental risk, to the extent 
that it is material to the assets managed. 
 
3.3 
The Board and senior management should maintain effective oversight of the asset 
manager’s environmental risk management and disclosure. They should also oversee the 
integration of environment risk into the asset manager’s investment risk management 
framework. Where environmental risk is deemed material to the assets managed, asset 
managers should designate a senior management member or a committee to oversee 
environmental risk, to ensure that such issues are reviewed at a sufficiently senior level. 
 
3.4 
The Board, or a committee delegated by it, is responsible for:  
 
a. approving an environmental risk management framework and policies to assess 
and manage the environmental risk of the assets managed, taking into 
consideration the asset manager’s fiduciary role and other legal obligations vis-à-
vis its customers;  
 
b. setting clear roles and responsibilities of the Board and senior management, 
including personnel and functions responsible for oversight of environmental risk 
of the assets managed; and 
 
c. ensuring that directors have adequate understanding of environmental risk, and 
senior management is equipped with appropriate expertise for managing 
environmental risk. 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
3.5 
Senior management is responsible for:  
 
a. ensuring the development and implementation of an environmental risk 
management framework and policies, as well as tools and metrics to monitor 
exposures to environmental risk, including resilience of the funds/mandates 
managed by the company to different environmental scenarios. The framework 
should include how the asset manager incorporates environmental risk 
considerations in its investment research, portfolio construction, risk 
management and stewardship practices across different asset classes and 
investment strategies;  
 
b. reviewing regularly the effectiveness of the framework, policies, tools and metrics 
and making appropriate revisions, taking into account changes in the asset 
manager’s business, size and complexity as well as risk environment;  
 
c. establishing an internal escalation process for managing environmental risk 
(including material environmental risk exposures and exceptions to the 
environmental risk management framework or policies), and that appropriate and 
timely actions are taken to address the risk; and 
 
d. allocating adequate resources with appropriate expertise, including through 
capacity building and training, to manage the environmental risk of the assets 
managed.  
 
3.6 
Senior management should also update the Board on material environmental risk 
issues in a timely manner. For asset managers where the Board and senior management are 
one and the same, both the Board and senior management would be jointly responsible for 
the expectations set out in paragraphs 3.4 and 3.5. 
 
3.7 
The asset manager should have in place a clear allocation of responsibilities for 
management of environmental risk in accordance with the three lines of defence model. 
Business line staff should take into consideration environmental risk when establishing and 
managing funds/mandates, particularly if they invest in sectors with higher environmental 
risk. The risk management function should monitor the business line’s implementation of the 
asset manager’s risk management policies, including challenging practices and decisions, 
where appropriate, while the compliance function should ensure adherence to applicable 
rules and regulations. The internal audit function should consider as part of its independent 
review, the robustness of the asset manager’s risk management framework in managing 
environmental risks.  
 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
4 
RESEARCH AND PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION 
 
4.1 
Asset managers should embed relevant environmental risk considerations7 in their 
research and portfolio construction processes if they have assessed them to be material. In 
addition to considering the investment horizon, risk and return profile of an investment and 
fundamental factors, such as economic conditions, central bank policy, sector trends and 
geopolitical risks, asset managers should also evaluate the potential impact of relevant 
environmental risk on an investment’s return potential.  
 
4.2 
In assessing environmental risk, asset managers should consider both transition and 
physical risks on an individual asset and/or portfolio level and take reference from 
international standards and frameworks8.  
 
4.3 
Asset managers should apply risk criteria to identify sectors with higher environmental 
risk. The risk criteria may include the level of GHG emissions, vulnerability to extreme weather 
events, and linkages to unsustainable energy practices, deforestation and pollution. For 
sectors with higher environmental risk, asset managers should develop sector-specific 
guidance to aid its investment personnel in understanding the environmental issues pertinent 
to such sectors. Where appropriate, the guidance could take into account internationally 
recognised sustainability standards and certification scheme 9 , as well as the investee 
company’s strategy to manage its environmental risk.  
 
4.4 
In considering the materiality of environmental risk with respect to the different asset 
classes (such as public equity, fixed income, and real estate/infrastructure), asset managers 
can take reference from the following examples:  
 
a. For equity investments, asset managers could consider the primary environmental 
risk factors that would affect the long-term success of the issuer. Given that 
equities are effectively perpetual instruments, equity investors could consider 
long-term risks in addition to short and mid-term risks. Some of these risk factors 
may be country, industry and/or location specific. These risk factors may affect the 
issuer’s ability to grow sustainably, if they are not managed appropriately. For 
example, investing in the equity of a semiconductor manufacturer may require an 
understanding of the plant’s water use intensity, including water availability and 
stress. In addition, broader themes and trends could also be considered, including 
possible impact from climate change and extreme weather events. 
 
 
7 It is recognized that environmental risk management practices and methodologies are more established for 
climate risks at this stage. Asset managers may take a progressive approach towards environmental risk 
management, starting with more well-established areas, and then progressing to other environmental risk types 
as generally accepted methodologies and practices emerge. 
8 These include the Global Reporting Initiative, CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the Sustainable 
Accounting Standards Board and Task-Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure. 
9 For example, the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards and the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
7 
 
In analysing these risks, asset managers could seek to understand, analyse, and 
incorporate key metrics into their investment analysis. Asset managers could also 
seek to analyse and consider the targets that issuers have set for management of 
their key risks (for example reduction in GHG emissions or water use intensity).  
 
b. For fixed income investments, asset managers could consider a variety of key 
environmental indicators from the issuers, as well as external environmental data 
providers, to achieve an impartial and holistic view of the environmental risk 
associated with a specific credit investment.  Where the credit investment is used 
to finance a specific project, asset managers could consider the environmental risk 
profile of the project as well. 
 
Asset managers could also consider the seniority (senior/subordinated/junior 
subordinated) as well as the maturity of the credit investment when assessing the 
relevance and materiality of environmental risk. The level of seniority and maturity 
of the credit will expose investors to varying degrees of financial impact from the 
issuer’s exposure to environmental risk. Asset managers could therefore carefully 
assess the pricing (yield/coupon level) of such credits against the risks involved.  
 
c. For direct real estate investments, asset managers could consider a variety of 
operational indicators (in areas such as GHG emissions, energy management, 
waste and water management), as well as the possible impact from climate change 
and extreme weather events. Asset managers could also consider the extent to 
which the operational indicators and environmental events may affect potential 
tenant demand. Asset managers could also assess the potential impact of any new 
regulations on properties which do not meet minimum environmental standards. 
 
d. For investments in REITs, given there is no direct control of the real estate 
investments, additional assessment could be given to the governance and strategy 
of the REIT manager in monitoring and evaluating the environmental risks of the 
assets within the trust.  
 
In considering the environmental impact of investments across different asset classes, asset 
managers may consider procuring asset class-specific research from external third parties, 
where appropriate, to supplement its own internal assessment. 
 
4.5 
Asset managers should also be mindful of internal aggregate limits that their 
customers have set for specific sectors or types of activities, such as sector limits on 
companies in the fossil fuel sector, or caps on carbon emissions in the portfolio. 
 
4.6  
Asset managers’ approach to managing environmental risk could be influenced by the 
investment objective and strategy (active versus passive) of the fund/mandate that they 
manage. Given that passive managers have limited leeway in their research and portfolio 
construction processes beyond benchmark selection and engagement of index providers on 
universe of sustainable indexes, stewardship is a key lever to manage environmental risk. 
Similarly, active managers may be constrained in the extent to which they can deviate from a 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
8 
 
reference benchmark or index. Where such constraints exist, asset managers can still manage 
and mitigate environmental risk in their portfolios by influencing their investee companies to 
have sound environmental risk mitigation measures. Asset managers should therefore 
incorporate environmental risk considerations into their stewardship frameworks (please 
refer to section 6). 
 
4.7 
For portfolio construction, asset managers should include measurement and 
management of the various environmental risk factors that are present in a portfolio on an 
aggregate basis, where material. For example, an asset manager can monitor the total GHG 
emissions of a portfolio, with reference to a benchmark of a comparator group10.  
 
5 
PORTFOLIO RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Ongoing Monitoring 
 
5.1 
Asset managers should put in place appropriate processes and systems to monitor, 
assess and manage the potential and actual impact of environmental risk on individual 
investments and portfolios on an ongoing basis, where material. Should there be 
developments (such as occurrences of natural disasters and changes in regulations) that could 
materially affect the operations and financials of an investee company, an asset manager 
should re-assess the risk and return profile of the investment or portfolio. This would allow 
the asset manager to make an informed decision on whether to continue with the investment, 
make adjustments to the composition of the portfolio, or put in place other mitigating 
measures to better manage the environmental risk in the investment or portfolio. The asset 
manager should also escalate these material environmental risk exposures and exceptions in 
accordance with its internal escalation process to ensure appropriate and timely actions are 
taken to address the risk.  
 
Scenario Analysis  
 
5.2 
Where environmental risk is material in the investment portfolios, asset managers 
should develop capabilities in scenario analysis 11 to assess its impact on the portfolios, 
including the portfolios’ resilience to financial losses under a range of outcomes.  
 
5.3 
Asset managers should include, where relevant, short and long-term environmental 
scenarios (using conservative and regularly reviewed assumptions) into its scenario analysis 
of portfolios for risk management purposes. The analysis may incorporate an assessment of 
physical and transition risks across a range of climate-related scenarios, including increases in 
global temperature, and whether the transition to a low-carbon economy occurs in an orderly 
 
10 Asset managers can draw on the work by UN Global Compact, the Principles for Responsible Investment and 
the CDP to aid them in developing guidance in this area.  
11 Asset managers should keep abreast of good practices in this evolving area, e.g. the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures’ Technical Supplement: The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of Climate-related 
Risks and Opportunities, 2017, and NGFS’ Climate Scenarios for Central Banks and Supervisors, 2020. Asset 
managers may also consider referring to scenarios aligned with scientific climate change pathways, including 
from the IPCC or International Energy Agency. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
9 
 
or disorderly fashion. For example, on physical risk, an asset manager could assess the impact 
on revenue and profitability of investee companies that are more exposed to sea level rise 
(such as companies owning seafront properties) or extreme weather events (such as 
agricultural companies). On transition risk, asset managers could assess the level of sensitivity 
of an investee company’s cost of doing business to higher carbon price; whether higher costs 
could be partially offset by increasing prices and its impact on consumer demand. These 
scenarios should also incorporate forward-looking information, as analysis that relies solely 
on historical data might systemically underestimate potential risks, in view of the 
uncertainties and long-term horizon associated with changes in the environment12.  
 
5.4 
Where data may be limited, asset managers should consider qualitative assessments 
and engage investee companies to adopt practices and framework of disclosure that best 
identify the risks and opportunities most relevant to their businesses. 
 
5.5 
Asset managers should use the results of their scenario analysis when reviewing the 
environmental risk profile of their managed portfolios, as well as their environmental risk 
management policies and practices.  
 
5.6 
Asset managers should also maintain proper documentation of the key features of the 
scenario analysis, including the choice of scenarios, reasonableness of assumptions, 
assessment of results, considerations on the need to take actions, and actions taken to 
address the risk.  
 
Capacity Building 
 
5.7 
Asset managers should equip its staff, including through capacity building and training, 
with adequate expertise to assess, manage and monitor environmental risk in a rigorous, 
timely and efficient manner. The asset manager should regularly review such capacity building 
programmes to incorporate emerging issues relating to environmental risk management.   
 
6 
STEWARDSHIP 
 
6.1. 
Asset managers are expected to exercise sound stewardship to help shape the 
corporate behaviour of investee companies positively through engagement, proxy voting and 
sector collaboration13. This includes supporting investee companies’ efforts in the transition 
towards more sustainable business practices over time, while maintaining the asset managers’ 
risk management standards. Asset managers should establish a process to prioritise issues 
and companies for engagement that is consistent with the interests of its customers and 
aligned with the asset manager’s investment objective and strategy. Asset managers may 
consider the materiality of the environmental risk in the portfolios, the relationship with the 
investee company and the investee company’s willingness and ability to improve its 
 
12 Central Banks and Supervisors Network for Greening the Financial System, Technical Supplement: 
Macroeconomic and financial stability: Implications of climate change, 2019. 
13 Asset managers should consider aligning their stewardship initiatives to the Singapore Stewardship Principles 
and draw on international resources, such as the International Corporate Governance Network Stewardship 
Principles and Principles for Responsible Investment for guidelines on active ownership. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
10 
 
environmental risk profile, as well as the availability of alternative options to effectively 
mitigate the investment’s exposure to environmental risk. Asset managers should also 
maintain proper documentation to support its engagement efforts, and report on their 
stewardship initiatives. Engagement outcomes should feed into the research and portfolio 
construction, and risk management processes outlined in Sections 4 and 5.  
 
6.2. 
Topics for engagement with investee companies may include but are not limited to:  
 
a. raising of environmental issues with investee companies to increase their 
awareness of environmental risks and opportunities; 
 
b. influencing the behaviour of investee companies to better manage and mitigate 
environmental risk; 
 
c. gathering information to supplement existing environmental risk disclosures from 
investee companies; and 
 
d. encouraging investee companies to provide relevant and timely environmental 
risk data and/or clearer disclosures to improve data availability and consistency14. 
 
6.3 
Asset managers should consider collaborative engagements with other asset 
managers/investors for efficiency, enhanced influence and legitimacy when engaging 
investee companies, and to build knowledge and skills15. 
 
6.4 
For asset managers that manage real estate investments, they should consider 
implementing asset enhancement initiatives, such as putting in place measures to improve 
energy and water efficiency or waste management, or attaining green building certification 
for these investments. 
 
7 
DISCLOSURE 
 
7.1. 
Asset managers should disclose their approach to managing environmental risk in a 
manner that is clear and meaningful to their stakeholders, including existing and potential 
customers. Asset managers are encouraged to disclose the potential impact of material 
environmental risk to customers, including quantitative metrics such as exposures to sectors 
with higher environmental risk. An asset manager’s disclosure may be consolidated at the 
group or head office level. 
 
7.2. 
Asset managers’ disclosure should be in accordance with well-regarded international 
reporting frameworks16, such as recommendations by the Financial Stability Board’s Task-
 
14 Asset managers may wish to take reference from international reporting frameworks, such as the standards 
set by Global Reporting Initiative in their engagement with investee companies. 
15 Asset managers can draw on resources made available as part of the Principles for Responsible Investment 
(PRI), including the Introductory Guide to Collaborative Engagement and the PRI Collaboration Platform. 
16 For example, standards and frameworks set by the CDP, Climate Disclosure Standards Board, Global Reporting 
Initiative, International Integrated Reporting Council, and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ASSET MANAGERS) 
 
DECEMBER 2020 
 
 
11 
 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”). The TCFD recommendations provide 
a useful framework for the disclosure of climate-related risks as follows17: 
 
a. Governance, including the Board’s oversight and management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and opportunities;  
 
b. Strategy, in relation to the actual and potential impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the asset managers’ businesses, relevant products and 
investment strategies, where such information is material;  
 
c. Risk management, with regard to how the asset manager identifies, assesses, and 
manages climate-related risks; and 
 
d. Metrics and targets, to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities where such information is material18. 
 
7.3 
Asset managers should review their disclosures regularly to improve their 
comprehensiveness, clarity and relevance, taking into account generally accepted 
measurement practices and methodologies.  
 
17 TCFD, Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 2017. 
18 For example, TCFD recommends the disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, 
and the related risks. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 
emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect 
emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both 
upstream and downstream emissions. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
