Metadata for pdf/todo/Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.4', 'title': 'a0586952-b1e5-4a2e-996e-46b2e0ed85dd 1..130', 'author': '', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'Arbortext Advanced Print Publisher 11.0.3521/W Unicode', 'producer': 'Acrobat Distiller 8.1.0 (Windows)', 'creationDate': "D:20230627113351+08'00'", 'modDate': "D:20230627113351+08'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Singapore'}

Country found in pdf/todo/Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967.pdf: Singapore

THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
LAND TITLES (STRATA) ACT 1967
2020 REVISED EDITION
This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.
Prepared and Published by
THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION
UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Section
1.
Short title
2.
Application
3.
Interpretation
4.
Application of Land Titles Act 1993
PART 2
SUBDIVISION AND SUBSIDIARY STRATA LAND-REGISTER
5.
Approval of subdivision under Planning Act 1998
5A.
Authorisation of strata subdivision under notification made by
Minister under Planning Act 1998
6.
Dealings with subdivided building
7.
[Repealed]
8.
Notification of planning condition on land-register, etc.
9.
Registration of strata title application and strata title plan
10.
Subsidiary strata land-register
10A.
Constitution of management corporation, etc.
11.
Share value not to be changed
12.
Plan of redevelopment
13.
Common property
14.
Powers of mortgagees of flats brought under this Act
15.
Accessory lot
PART 3
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF
SUBSIDIARY PROPRIETOR
16.
Easement of support
17.
Easement of shelter
18.
Easements for passage of water, sewerage, drainage and other
services
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023
1
2020 Ed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Section
19.
Easements for light, overhanging eaves and other projections
20.
Ancillary rights
21.
Waiver of registration of statutory easements
22.
Creation of easements and restrictions
23.
Dispositions of common property
24.
Vesting of part of common property in Government for roads,
streets, road reserves, road widening, drainage reserves or for
any other public use as shown on plans approved by relevant
authority
25.
Addition to common property
26.
Amalgamation of whole of common property comprised in 2 or
more parcels
27.
Court orders affecting common property
28.
Limitation Act 1959 not to extend to common property
29.
Unity of seisin not to affect easements, etc.
30.
Share values
31.
Provisional lots
32.
Restrictions on subsidiary proprietor’s rights
PART 4
[REPEALED]
33. to 76.
[Repealed]
PART 5
VARIATION OR TERMINATION OF
STRATA SUBDIVISION SCHEME
77.
Variation of strata subdivision scheme consequent upon damage
to or destruction of subdivided building
78.
Termination of strata subdivision scheme by court
79.
Interchangeability of notices
80.
Consequences of making order under section 77 or 78
81.
Termination of strata subdivision scheme by management
corporation
82.
Liquidators
83.
Qualifications of liquidator
83A.
Application to subsidiary management corporations
84.
Interpretation of sections 81 and 82
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
2
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 5A
COLLECTIVE SALE OF PROPERTY
Section
84A.
Application for collective sale of parcel by majority of
subsidiary proprietors who have made conditional sale and
purchase agreement
84B.
Effect of order of General Division of High Court or Board
84C.
Power of General Division of High Court or Board to appoint
person to act for certain subsidiary proprietor
84D.
Application for collective sale of parcel not registered under this
Act by majority of proprietors where proprietors of flats own
land
84E.
Application for collective sale where proprietors of flats own
leasehold tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure in flats not
registered under this Act but do not own land
84F.
Collective sale by all proprietors of flats who own leasehold
tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure in flats not registered
under this Act but do not own land
84FA. Application for collective sale of parcel by majority of
subsidiary proprietors who own registered leasehold tenure of at
least 850 years or other tenure
84FB. Collective sale by all subsidiary proprietors who own registered
leasehold tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure
84G.
Application of Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004
PART 6
[REPEALED]
85. to 114. [Repealed]
PART 7
GENERAL
115.
Other rights and remedies not affected by this Act
116.
[Repealed]
117.
[Repealed]
118.
[Repealed]
119.
Service of documents on management corporation, subsidiary
proprietors and others
120.
[Repealed]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
3
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Section
121.
Legal proceedings
PART 8
ISSUE OF SUBSIDIARY CERTIFICATES OF TITLE
FOR FLATS UNDER OTHER SCHEMES AND
ISSUE OF SUBSIDIARY STRATA
CERTIFICATES OF TITLE
122.
Issue of subsidiary certificate of title to registered lessee
123.
Flats sold by Housing and Development Board
124.
Flats sold by Jurong Town Corporation
125.
Subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with registered
leases under Registration of Deeds Act 1988
125A.
Subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats where proprietors
own leasehold estate of at least 999 years or other estate
126.
Issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with
subsisting leases registered under Land Titles Act 1993
126A.
[Repealed]
126B.
[Repealed]
127.
Issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with
subsisting leases registered under Registration of Deeds Act
1988 where land is vested in flat owners as tenants-in-common
128.
Effect of issue of qualified certificate of title and of subsidiary
strata certificates of title
129.
[Repealed]
PART 9
MISCELLANEOUS
130.
Regulations
131.
Regulations made by, and fees to be paid to, Authority
First Schedule
— Requirements under section 84A, 84D,
84E or 84FA
Second Schedule — General meetings for purposes of
collective sale
Third Schedule
— Composition, constitution and
proceedings of
collective sale committee
Fourth Schedule — Deductions allowable by Board or
General Division of High Court
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
4
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An Act to facilitate the subdivision of land into strata and the
collective sale of property, and the disposition of titles thereto and
for purposes connected therewith.
[15 May 1968]
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Short title
1. This Act is the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967.
Application
2. Except as hereinafter provided, this Act applies only to registered
land.
Interpretation
3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“accessory lot” means a lot intended for separate proprietorship
and use with any other specified lot or lots for any purpose;
“assurance” includes any transfer, lease, charge, mortgage,
transmission application or any other application for vesting
made under this Act;
“Authority” means the Singapore Land Authority established
under the Singapore Land Authority Act 2001;
“Board” means a Strata Titles Board constituted under the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“building” includes —
(a) any building partially completed;
(b) where applicable, any building to be erected within a
stratum shown or specified in any strata subdivision
plan submitted to the relevant authority for approval;
or
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
5
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) any building to be erected which is authorised for
strata subdivision under a notification made by the
Minister under section 21(6) of the Planning Act
1998;
“Commissioner”
means
the
Commissioner
of
Buildings
appointed under section 3 of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004;
“common property”, subject to subsection (2), means —
(a) in relation to any land and building comprised or to
be comprised in a strata title plan, such part of the
land and building —
(i) not comprised in any lot or proposed lot in that
strata title plan; and
(ii) used or capable of being used or enjoyed by
occupiers of 2 or more lots or proposed lots;
(b) in relation to any other land and building, such part of
the land and building —
(i) not comprised in any non-strata lot; and
(ii) used or capable of being used or enjoyed by
occupiers of 2 or more non-strata lots within
that land or building; or
(c) in relation to any land and building mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b), any of the following whether or
not comprised in a lot, proposed lot or non-strata lot:
(i) the pipes, wires, cables or ducts which are used,
or capable of being used or enjoyed, by
occupiers of 2 or more lots, proposed lots or
non-strata lots (as the case may be) within that
land or building, or are used or capable of being
used for the servicing or enjoyment of the
common property;
(ii) the cubic space enclosed by a structure
enclosing
pipes,
wires,
cables
or
ducts
mentioned in sub-paragraph (i);
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
6
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(iii) any structural element of the building;
(iv) the waterproof membrane attached to an
external wall or a roof;
.
Examples
(a) A foundation, load-bearing wall, column or beam, a shear
core, strut, ground anchor, slab (not including any layer that is
the underlayment or the flooring finishing), truss and common
staircase.
(b) An external wall, or a roof or façade of a building which is
used or enjoyed, or capable of being used or enjoyed, by
occupiers of 2 or more lots, proposed lots or non-strata lots.
(c) A garden, sporting or recreational facility, car park or parking
area for other vehicles, none of which are comprised in a lot,
proposed lot or non-strata lot.
(d) A central air-conditioning system and its appurtenances, and a
fire sprinkler protection system and its appurtenances.
(e) Any chute, pipe, wire, cable, duct or facility for the passage or
provision of water, sewage, drainage, gas, oil, electricity,
telephone, radio, television, garbage, heating or cooling
systems, or any other similar services.
“company” includes —
(a) any body of persons incorporated in or outside
Singapore; and
(b) an unincorporated society, association or other body
which under the law of its place of origin may hold
property in the name of the society, association or
other body or in the name of its trustees, secretary or
other officer duly appointed for that purpose;
“competent authority”, in relation to the development or
subdivision
of
land,
means
the
competent
authority
appointed under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 in
respect of the development or subdivision of land, as the case
may be;
“council” has the meaning given by the Building Maintenance
and Strata Management Act 2004;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
7
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“flat” means a horizontal stratum of any building or part thereof,
whether such stratum is on one or more levels or is partially
or wholly below the surface of the ground, which is used or
intended to be used as a complete and separate unit for the
purpose of habitation or business or for any other purpose,
and may be comprised in a lot, or in part of any subdivided
building not shown in a registered strata title plan;
“immediate family member” has the meaning given by the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“land” has the meaning given by the Land Titles Act 1993;
“Land Titles Registry” means the Land Titles Registry of the
Authority;
“lot” means a stratum which is shown as a lot on a strata title
plan, and includes a lot specified as an accessory lot on any
such plan;
“management corporation” means a management corporation
constituted under this Act;
“ordinary resolution” has the meaning given by the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“parcel” means the whole of the registered land having a
Government survey lot number and comprised in a strata title
plan;
“planning permission” has the meaning given by the Planning
Act 1998;
“proposed lot” has the meaning given by the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“proprietor”, in relation to land comprised in a strata title plan,
means the person who was the proprietor of that land
immediately before the registration of the strata title
application for that plan under section 9;
“provisional lot” means a lot within which one or more buildings
or parts of any building are to be erected or completed and is
shown as a provisional lot in a strata title plan and in any
other record maintained by the Registrar;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
8
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“registered land” means land which has been brought under the
provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993, by being included in a
folio of the land-register, and held by the registered proprietor
for an estate in fee simple or perpetuity, or for a leasehold
estate comprised in a Crown or State lease;
“registered lease” means a lease registered under the provisions
of the Land Titles Act 1993;
“registered lessee”, in relation to any subdivided building not
comprised in a strata title plan, means the registered
proprietor
of
a
leasehold
estate
in
registered
land
comprising a flat which is shown in a plan annexed to a
registered lease, having an unexpired term of not less than
21 years as at the date of the lodgment of an application by
that registered proprietor for a subsidiary certificate of title;
“Registrar” means the Registrar of Titles appointed under the
Land Titles Act 1993;
“relevant authority” means any one or more Government or
statutory authorities empowered to approve plans for
development or subdivision of any land or plans relating to
the construction of any building under the Planning Act 1998
or under any other written law and includes the competent
authority;
“schedule of strata units”, in relation to any land or building,
means the schedule of strata units accepted by the
Commissioner
under
section
11
of
the
Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004 for that
land or building;
“share
value” has the meaning given by the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“special resolution” has the meaning given by the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“strata roll” has the meaning given by the Building Maintenance
and Strata Management Act 2004;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
9
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“strata subdivision” includes a subdivision of land to comprise
one or more strata units whether or not any strata unit is on
the same level as any other strata unit;
“strata title plan” means a plan of registered land which —
(a) is described in the title or heading thereto as a strata
title plan;
(b) shows the whole or any part of the land comprised
therein as being divided into 2 or more strata, whether
or not any stratum is divided into 2 or more lots; and
(c) contains
the
particulars
prescribed
under
the
Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998,
and includes a strata title plan for redevelopment of any lot in
a strata title plan registered under this Act;
“stratum” means any part of land consisting of a space of any
shape below, on or above the surface of the land, or partly
below and partly above the surface of the land, the
dimensions of which are delineated;
“structural element” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
the Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
“subdivided building” means —
(a) any one or more buildings comprised in a strata
subdivision plan approved by the relevant authority;
or
(b) any building or class of buildings authorised for
strata subdivision under a notification made by the
Minister under section 21(6) of the Planning Act
1998;
“subsidiary certificate of title” means the subsidiary certificate
of title issued under section 122;
“subsidiary management corporation” has the meaning given by
the Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
10
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“subsidiary proprietor” means —
(a) the registered subsidiary proprietor for the time being
of the entire estate in a lot including an estate for life,
an estate in remainder or an estate in reversion; and
(b) in relation to a lot where a lease has been granted, the
registered subsidiary proprietor for the time being of
a leasehold interest in a lot described in an instrument
of lease whose unexpired term is not less than
21 years as from the date of lodgment of the
instrument
of
lease
for
registration
with
the
Registrar including such a lease registered prior to
1 December 1987;
“subsidiary strata certificate of title” means a subsidiary strata
certificate of title issued under this Act;
“unanimous resolution” has the meaning given by the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
[35/2017]
(2) For the purposes of this Act —
(a) all windows of a lot, proposed lot or non-strata lot that are
located on any exterior wall of the lot, proposed lot or (as
the case may be) non-strata lot, being either louvres,
casement windows, sliding windows or windows with any
movable part, are part of the lot, proposed lot or (as the
case may be) non-strata lot and not common property; and
(b) all other windows of a lot, proposed lot or non-strata lot
that are located on any exterior wall of the lot, proposed lot
or (as the case may be) non-strata lot are common property,
unless otherwise described in a strata title plan.
Application of Land Titles Act 1993
4. The Land Titles Act 1993 and any rules made under that Act,
insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
of any rules made under this Act, apply in all respects to land
registered in any folio of the subsidiary strata land-register.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
11
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 2
SUBDIVISION AND SUBSIDIARY STRATA LAND-REGISTER
Approval of subdivision under Planning Act 1998
5. The provisions relating to the subdivision of land contained in
the Planning Act 1998 and any rules made under that Act apply to the
subdivision of any building or any lot.
Authorisation of strata subdivision under notification made by
Minister under Planning Act 1998
5A.—(1) Where by reason of any notification made by the Minister
under section 21(6) of the Planning Act 1998 —
(a) the strata subdivision of any building or class of buildings
as specified in that notification is authorised; and
(b) the approval by the competent authority of a strata
subdivision plan for that building or class of buildings is
not required under the Planning Act 1998,
then for the purposes of this Act and any regulations made under this
Act, where any thing or matter is required to be done in accordance
with or to be ascertained from any strata subdivision plan approved or
issued by the competent authority, such requirement is deemed to be
complied with or satisfied if it is done in accordance with or
ascertained from building plans approved by the relevant authority.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the building plans approved
by the relevant authority —
(a) must be endorsed with a certificate by a surveyor who is
registered under the Land Surveyors Act 1991 and has in
force a practising certificate issued under that Act
certifying that the boundaries of all the strata lots which
the surveyor has delineated on the approved building plans
have been endorsed by the proprietor of the development to
be correct and in accordance with what was sold or agreed
to be sold by the proprietor; and
(b) must contain such other certifications and particulars as
may be required by the Registrar or the Chief Surveyor.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
12
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dealings with subdivided building
6.—(1) Subject to this section and except in the case where under
section 22 of the Land Titles Act 1993 the Registrar has directed that
any building may be dealt with in parts under the provisions of the
Registration of Deeds Act 1988, an assurance (except mortgages,
charges, reconveyances or discharges of subsisting mortgages or
charges, vesting orders issued by the General Division of the High
Court and any assurance made pursuant to a power of sale conferred
by any written law) disposing of any part of a subdivided building
must not be registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 or the
Registration of Deeds Act 1988.
[40/2019]
(1A) The Registrar or the Registrar of Deeds (as the case may be)
has the power to refuse to register that assurance or, where the
assurance has been registered in contravention of subsection (1),
cancel that registration upon the discovery thereof.
(2) An assurance disposing of any part of a subdivided building
may be lodged for registration under the provisions of this Act
where —
(a) a strata title application in the approved form for the issue
of subsidiary strata certificates of title has been lodged with
the Registrar;
(b) a strata title plan has been lodged with and approved by the
Chief Surveyor under the Boundaries and Survey Maps
Act 1998; and
(c) the Registrar has registered the strata title application
lodged under paragraph (a) and has issued the subsidiary
strata certificates of title applied for.
(3) This section does not apply to any building or class of buildings
specified by the Minister by notification in the Gazette.
(4) Where a notification has been made under subsection (3), the
Minister may at any time cancel the notification when the registered
proprietor of the land on which the building is erected has, with the
approval of the Minister, transferred all the estate and interest in such
land to the lessees of the registered leasehold estate of the subdivided
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
13
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
parts of the building as tenants-in-common in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the leases granted in respect of the subdivided
parts of the building.
(5) Subject to sections 125, 125A, 126 and 127, this section does
not apply to any building where, on 15 April 1976, a flat forming part
of that building has been disposed of by the proprietor thereof by a
lease registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 or the Registration of
Deeds Act 1988, and the registered leasehold interest is vested in any
person other than the proprietor.
[4/2021]
(6) In this section —
“assurance” includes any transaction to be registered under the
Land Titles Act 1993;
“charge” includes a charge mentioned in section 21 of the
Central Provident Fund Act 1953;
“Registrar of Deeds” means the Registrar of Deeds appointed
under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988.
7. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
Notification of planning condition on land-register, etc.
8.—(1) Where planning permission has been granted by the
competent authority for the development of any land subject to the
condition that 30% of the floor area of any building in the
development must be owned by a single person for a period of
10 years from the date of the latest temporary occupation licence
issued before the grant of the certificate of fitness in respect of the
development, the competent authority must notify the Registrar of the
planning permission and file with the Registrar the plans delineating
the specified flats in any building comprising the aforesaid 30% of the
floor area.
(2) Where the Registrar has received the notice and plans
mentioned in subsection (1) and the Registrar is satisfied that the
plans adequately identify the flats comprised in the said 30% of the
floor area of the development, the Registrar —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
14
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) must enter the appropriate notification on the relevant folio
of the land-register or subsidiary strata land-register; and
(b) has the power to refuse to register any instrument disposing
of any interest in any flat in contravention of the condition
mentioned in subsection (1) when the instrument is
presented for registration.
(3) Where the Registrar has discovered that any instrument has
been lodged for registration or has been finally registered in
contravention of the condition mentioned in subsection (1), the
Registrar must serve a written notice on the person who appears in the
records of the Registrar as the party claiming under the said
instrument of the Registrar’s intention to cancel the registration of
the instrument and any instrument relating to the flats mentioned in
subsection (1) and any relating entries in the records maintained by
the Registrar.
(4) On the expiration of the Registrar’s notice under subsection (3),
the Registrar must without giving any further notice cancel the
registration of the instruments mentioned in subsection (3) and all
entries relating thereto.
(5) The registered proprietor may lodge an application with the
Registrar in the approved form for the cancellation of any notification
made by the Registrar in the land-register or subsidiary strata
land-register under this section and the Registrar must cancel the
notification if he or she is satisfied that the condition mentioned in
subsection (1) has been fulfilled.
Registration of strata title application and strata title plan
9.—(1) A strata title application for a parcel must not be registered
under this section unless —
(a) it is in the approved form; and
(b) the strata title plan for that parcel has been lodged with and
approved by the Chief Surveyor under the Boundaries and
Survey Maps Act 1998.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
15
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Every strata title application must —
(a) show the share values in whole numbers of each lot (except
an accessory lot) and a number equal to the aggregate share
value entitlement of all the lots comprised in the parcel;
and
(b) contain such other particulars as may be prescribed or as
the Registrar may specify.
(3) The strata title plan is deemed to be registered under the
provisions of this Act on the date that the strata title application is
registered by the Registrar under subsection (1) and the strata title
plan has been assigned a strata title plan serial number as notified in
the land-register.
(4) For the purposes of subsection
(2)(a), where planning
permission for the erection of the buildings comprising the lots has
been granted on or after 15 April 1976, the share values shown on the
strata title application must be those shown in the schedule of strata
units filed with and accepted by the Commissioner.
(5) No share value is to be allotted to an accessory lot.
(6) In this section, “lot” includes a provisional lot.
Subsidiary strata land-register
10.—(1) The Registrar must —
(a) prepare and maintain for the purposes of this Act a series of
records to be called “the subsidiary strata land-register”;
and
(b) issue for each lot shown on the strata title application a
subsidiary strata certificate of title.
(2) Upon registration of a strata title application, a subsidiary
proprietor is deemed to be the proprietor of the subsidiary
proprietor’s lot and share in the common property subject to the
encumbrances (if any) registered or notified in the subsidiary strata
land-register.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any assurance or other
dealing affecting a lot may be registered in the same manner and form
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
16
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and, upon registration, has the same effect as a similar assurance or
dealing registered under the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993,
and affecting part of registered land comprised in a subdivision plan
submitted to the competent authority.
Constitution of management corporation, etc.
10A.—(1) The subsidiary proprietors from time to time of all lots
comprised in a strata title plan constitute, on the date of registration of
the strata title application in respect of that strata title plan under this
Act, the management corporation for that strata title plan.
(2) The subsidiary proprietors from time to time of the lots for
whose exclusive benefit any limited common property is designated
in a strata title plan, or in a comprehensive resolution filed with the
Chief Surveyor under section 78(2)(b) of the Building Maintenance
and Strata Management Act 2004 constitute, on the date of
registration of the strata title application in respect of that strata
title plan or such other instrument as required by the Registrar under
this Act, the subsidiary management corporation for that limited
common property.
(3) The Registrar may, upon payment of a prescribed fee, issue to a
management corporation or a subsidiary management corporation a
certificate stating that the management corporation or subsidiary
management corporation (as the case may be) is a body corporate
constituted on the day specified therein.
Share value not to be changed
11.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act or the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004, the share
value of any lot shown in the subsidiary strata land-register must not
be altered in any manner on or after the date of registration of the
strata title application comprising that lot.
(2) The Registrar may correct any entry in the subsidiary strata
land-register in respect of the share value of a lot if he or she is
satisfied that there is an error in the entry.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
17
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) The court may order the share value of a lot shown in the
subsidiary strata land-register to be amended where the court is
satisfied that the value was fraudulently assigned to the lot.
(4) Nothing in this section prohibits the alteration of the share value
of a lot consequent upon the subdivision of that lot into 2 or more lots
or the amalgamation of 2 or more lots.
Plan of redevelopment
12.—(1) A subsidiary proprietor of a lot or of 2 or more lots who
intends to subdivide that lot or amalgamate those lots may lodge a
strata title application for redevelopment for registration with the
Registrar after obtaining the relevant authority’s approval.
(2) Where the subdivision of a lot or the amalgamation of 2 or more
lots results in the creation of any additional or new common property,
the subsidiary proprietor must obtain the approval of the management
corporation
before
lodging
the
strata
title
application
for
redevelopment with the Registrar.
(3) A strata title application for redevelopment must not be
accepted by the Registrar unless an amended schedule of strata
units showing the proposed share values to be allotted to the lot or lots
affected by the redevelopment has been filed with and accepted by the
Commissioner.
(3A) In the proposed allotment of share values referred to in
subsection (3) —
(a) where a lot is subdivided, the aggregate share value of the
proposed new lot or lots must be equal to the share value of
the former lot; and
(b) where 2 or more lots are amalgamated, the share value of
the proposed new lot or lots must be equal to the aggregate
share value of the former lots.
(4) The Registrar must not be concerned to inquire whether a
subsidiary proprietor has obtained the approval of the relevant
authority or the management corporation under subsection (1) or (2).
(5) A strata title application for redevelopment must not be
registered unless —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
18
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) it is in the approved form; and
(b) the strata title plan for redevelopment has been lodged with
and approved by the Chief Surveyor under the Boundaries
and Survey Maps Act 1998.
(5A) The strata title plan for redevelopment is deemed to be
registered under the provisions of this Act on the date that the strata
title application for redevelopment is registered by the Registrar.
(6) On registration of the strata title application for redevelopment,
parts of any lot which are capable of forming the common property as
provided under this Act will form part of the common property, free
from any encumbrances (except those created by statute and
subsisting easements), in relation to all the lots comprised within
the same parcel as described in the strata title plan first registered with
the Registrar, without the need for a resolution made under section 25
directing the management corporation concerned to accept a transfer
of such parts of a lot to form part of the common property.
(7) On registration of the strata title application for redevelopment,
the Registrar must make the appropriate amendment and entry on the
relevant folios of the land-register and subsidiary strata land-register
comprising the lot or lots shown in the strata title plan for
redevelopment.
(8) All other provisions of this Act relating to a strata title plan, a
strata title application and a lot, so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this section, apply to a strata title plan for
redevelopment, a strata title application for redevelopment and any
lot shown therein, respectively.
Common property
13.—(1) On registration of the strata title application the Registrar
must enter a memorial in the land-register on the volume and folio of
the parcel to the effect that a subsidiary strata land-register has been
created, and thereupon the common property is held by the subsidiary
proprietors as tenants-in-common proportional to their respective
share value and for the same term and tenure as their respective lots
are held by them.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
19
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The Registrar on issuing a subsidiary strata certificate of title for
a lot must certify therein the subsidiary proprietor’s share in the
common property, but no subsidiary strata certificate of title is to be
issued for the common property.
(3) Any share in the common property must not be disposed of
except as appurtenant to the lot of the subsidiary proprietor and any
assurance of a lot operates to assure the share in the common property
appurtenant to that lot without any express mention in the assurance.
(4) The certificate of title comprising the parcel must be retained by
the Registrar after the issue of the relevant subsidiary strata
certificates of title.
(5) Where the subsidiary strata certificates of title were issued
before 15 April 1976, the duplicate certificate of title comprising the
parcel may be deposited with the Registrar.
Powers of mortgagees of flats brought under this Act
14. Where all the flats in a development have been brought under
this Act pursuant to section 50, 51 or 52, which were in force
immediately prior to 1 December 1987, or pursuant to section 125,
125A, 126 or 127 or the repealed section 126A and subsidiary strata
certificates of title have been issued for all the flats, the mortgagee
whose mortgage was registered in respect of such a flat either under
the Land Titles Act 1993 or the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 prior
to the issue of a subsidiary strata certificate of title for the flat, is
deemed —
(a) to be the donee of an irrevocable power of attorney granted
by the mortgagor in respect of the mortgagor’s estate in the
undivided share in the common property appurtenant to the
lot comprising the mortgaged flat upon the issue of the
subsidiary strata certificate of title; and
(b) to have been vested with all rights and powers as if the
mortgagee is the registered proprietor of the estate in the
share of the common property appurtenant to the flat
mortgaged by the subsidiary proprietor as and when the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
20
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
mortgagee exercises the mortgagee’s powers as mortgagee
under the registered mortgage of the flat.
[4/2021]
Accessory lot
15.—(1) An accessory lot or any share, estate or interest therein
must not be dealt with independently of the lot to which the accessory
lot has been made appurtenant as shown on the relevant registered
strata title plan.
(2) Any person who deals with any accessory lot or any share,
estate or interest therein independently and not made as appurtenant
to the lot which such accessory lot is shown on the relevant registered
strata title plan as being appurtenant shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.
(3) Any assurance made in contravention of subsection (1) must not
be registered under this Act and any registration thereof is null and
void and does not pass any estate or interest in the accessory lot.
(4) Where such assurance has been registered, the Registrar on
discovery thereof must cancel the registration, and no person affected
by the cancellation is entitled to any compensation from the assurance
fund.
PART 3
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF
SUBSIDIARY PROPRIETOR
Easement of support
16.—(1) In respect of each lot there is implied —
(a) in favour of the subsidiary proprietor of the lot, and as
appurtenant thereto, an easement for the subjacent and
lateral support thereof by the common property and by
every lot capable of affording support; and
(b) as against the subsidiary proprietor of the lot, and to which
the lot is subject, an easement for the subjacent and lateral
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
21
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
support of the common property and to every other lot
capable of enjoying support.
(2) The easement of support created by this section entitles the
subsidiary proprietor of the dominant tenement to enter on the
servient tenement to replace, renew or restore any support.
Easement of shelter
17.—(1) Every subsidiary proprietor is entitled to have the
subsidiary proprietor’s lot sheltered by all other parts of the
subdivided building that are capable of affording shelter.
(2) The right created by this section is an easement to which the
aforesaid parts of the subdivided building are subject.
(3) The easement of shelter created by this section entitles the
subsidiary proprietor of the dominant tenement to enter on the
servient tenement to replace, renew or restore any shelter.
Easements for passage of water, sewerage, drainage and other
services
18. In respect of each lot there are implied —
(a) in favour of the subsidiary proprietor of the lot, and as
appurtenant thereto, easements for the passage or provision
of water, sewerage, drainage, gas, electricity, garbage,
artificially heated or cooled air and other services
(including
telephone,
radio
and
television
services)
through or by means of any pipes, wires, cables or ducts
to the extent to which those sewers, pipes, wires, cables or
ducts are capable of being used in connection with the
enjoyment of the lot; and
(b) as against the subsidiary proprietor of the lot, and to which
the lot is subject, easements for the passage or provision of
water,
sewerage,
drainage,
gas,
electricity,
garbage,
artificially heated or cooled air and other services
(including
telephone,
radio
and
television
services)
through or by means of any sewers, pipes, wires, cables
or ducts, as appurtenant to the common property and also
to every other lot capable of enjoying such easements.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
22
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Easements for light, overhanging eaves and other projections
19.—(1) In respect of each lot and the common property, there are
implied in favour of the subsidiary proprietor of the dominant
tenement and against the subsidiary proprietor of the servient
tenement —
(a) easement for uninterrupted access and use of light to or for
any windows, doors or other apertures existing and
enjoyed at the date of registration of the relevant strata
title plan; and
(b) the right to maintain and use overhanging eaves and other
projections existing at the date of registration of the
relevant strata title plan.
(2) There are implied as appurtenant to the common property and
subservient to any lot affected —
(a) an easement for the provision of any service through any
installation in any lot; and
(b) an easement for support by any lot capable of providing
support.
(3) This section also extends to a lot for which a subsidiary strata
certificate of title has been issued before 15 April 1976.
Ancillary rights
20. All ancillary rights and obligations reasonably necessary to
make easements effective are implied whenever easements are
created or implied by and under this Act.
Waiver of registration of statutory easements
21. The easements implied or created by this Act take effect and are
enforceable without any memorial or notification on the folios of the
subsidiary strata land-register and section 97(5) and (6) of the Land
Titles Act 1993 does not apply to such easements.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
23
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Creation of easements and restrictions
22.—(1) This section applies where a management corporation has,
in accordance with section 35(1) of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004, passed a unanimous resolution to —
(a) execute on the behalf of its subsidiary proprietors a grant of
easement or a restrictive covenant burdening the parcel;
(b) accept on their behalf a grant of easement or a restrictive
covenant;
(c) surrender on their behalf a grant of easement or a
restrictive covenant burdening the parcel; or
(d) accept on their behalf a surrender of a grant of easement or
a restrictive covenant.
(2) The management corporation, if it is satisfied that the resolution
was duly passed, and that all persons having registered interests in the
parcel have consented in writing to the manner of creating those
interests in respect of the registered land comprised in the proposed
disposition, must execute the appropriate instrument and that
instrument is valid and effective without any execution by any
person having an interest in the parcel.
(2A) The receipt of the management corporation for any moneys
payable to the management corporation under the instrument
mentioned
in
subsection
(2),
is
a
sufficient
discharge
and
exonerates the person taking under the instrument from seeing to
the application or being answerable for any loss or misapplication of
the moneys expressed to have been so received.
(3) Every instrument creating the easement or restrictive covenant
lodged for registration must be endorsed with or accompanied by a
certificate in the prescribed form under the seal of the management
corporation that the resolution was duly passed and that all necessary
consents were given, and the certificate in favour of a purchaser and
the Registrar is conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(4) The Registrar must register the instrument creating the
easement or restrictive covenant by making the appropriate
notification on the relevant folio of the land-register.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
24
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dispositions of common property
23.—(1) This section applies where a management corporation has,
in accordance with section 34(1) of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004, passed a 90% resolution as defined
under that Act —
(a) to execute on the behalf of its subsidiary proprietors a
transfer of any part of the common property (including a
part of any building or any immovable property affixed to
common property); or
(b) to execute on their behalf a lease of or rent part of such
common property.
(2) The management corporation, if it is satisfied that the resolution
was duly passed, and that all persons (other than the subsidiary
proprietors) having registered interests in the parcel have consented
in writing to the release of those interests in respect of the registered
land comprised in the proposed transfer or lease, and that the relevant
authority has consented in writing to the proposed transfer or lease so
far as it affects subdivision and amalgamation of the land comprised
therein, must execute the appropriate instrument.
(2A) The instrument mentioned in subsection (2) is valid and
effective without execution by any person having an interest in the
common property, and the receipt of the management corporation for
any moneys payable to the management corporation under the
instrument is a sufficient discharge, and exonerates the purchaser
from seeing to the application or being answerable for any loss or
misapplication of the moneys expressed to have been so received.
(3) Every instrument of such transfer or lease lodged for
registration must be endorsed with or accompanied by a certificate
in the approved form under the seal of the management corporation
that the resolution was duly passed and that all necessary consents
were given, and the certificate in favour of the purchaser and the
Registrar is conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(4) Upon registration of the transfer by the Registrar, the part of the
common property transferred is free from any encumbrances (except
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
25
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
those created by statute and subsisting easements not created or
implied under this Act) and the Registrar must —
(a) enter a memorial of the transfer on the folio of the
land-register comprising the parcel;
(b) amend the relevant folios of the land-register and
subsidiary strata land-register in such manner as the
Registrar may think fit so as to show thereon the part of
the common property which has been transferred; and
(c) issue to the transferee a certificate of title for the land
transferred.
Vesting of part of common property in Government for roads,
streets, road reserves, road widening, drainage reserves or for
any other public use as shown on plans approved by relevant
authority
24.—(1) Where any part of land comprised in the common property
of a parcel has been demarcated in any plan approved by the relevant
authority for roads, streets, road reserves, road widening and drainage
reserves or for any other public use, that part of the common property
as demarcated for any of the above purposes becomes vested in the
Government upon the registration by the Registrar of an instrument of
vesting in the approved form lodged by the public authority.
(2) The Registrar, if satisfied that the instrument of vesting relates
to part of the common property as shown in the plan approved by the
relevant authority for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)
and that the instrument has been duly executed and certified by the
public authority, must, notwithstanding that any part of a building
within one or more lots is erected on, over or under any part of such
common property, register the instrument on the relevant folio of the
land-register without production of the duplicate instrument.
(2A) Upon registration under subsection (2), the estate or interest in
the part of the common property comprised in the instrument of
vesting vests in the Government freed and discharged from all
encumbrances and from any subsisting easements.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
26
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) On registration of the instrument of vesting, the Registrar must
cancel the registration of any mortgage, charge or lease thereby
overreached and make the appropriate notification on the relevant
folio of the land-register comprising the common property.
(4) The land thereby vested in the Government ceases to be subject
to the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993 and the Registrar must
enter an appropriate notification to that effect on the relevant folio of
the land-register, and create a new folio for the balance of the
common property which remains vested in the subsidiary proprietors.
Addition to common property
25.—(1) This section applies where a management corporation has,
in accordance with section 34(3) of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004, passed a special resolution to accept —
(a) a grant or transfer of any land (not being a lot within the
parcel)
which
abuts
the
parcel,
free
from
any
encumbrances (except those created by statute and
subsisting easements);
(b) a grant or transfer of any lot, including the undivided share
in the common property appurtenant to that lot, free from
any encumbrances (except those created by statute and
subsisting easements); or
(c) a lease of land, not being a lot within the parcel, whether or
not it abuts on the parcel,
for the purpose of creating additional common property.
(2) The transfer lodged for registration must contain a request to the
Registrar that such land or part thereof, or the lot transferred (as the
case may be), be included as part of the common property.
(3) Upon registration of the transfer, the Registrar must —
(a) enter a memorial of the transfer on the folio of the
land-register comprising the common property;
(b) amend the relevant folios of the land-register and
subsidiary strata land-register in such manner as the
Registrar may think fit so as to show thereon the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
27
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
transferred land or part thereof or the lot transferred as
forming part of the common property; and
(c) where a lot is transferred, amend the relevant folios of the
subsidiary strata land-register to decrease the aggregate
share value by a number equivalent to the share value of
that lot.
(4) Upon registration of the transfer by the Registrar —
(a) the transferred land or the transferred lot (as the case may
be) forms part of the common property and the provisions
of this Act applicable to common property as varied by this
section apply to the transferred land or lot;
(b) the subsidiary proprietors hold the common property
(including
the
transferred
land
or
lot)
as
tenants-in-common in accordance with their respective
share values as determined under subsection (3); and
(c) without any further assurance the subsidiary proprietors
hold the common property in the following manner:
(i) where the tenure of the transferred land is similar to
that of the common property held by the subsidiary
proprietors prior to the date of the registration of the
transfer of such land — the subsidiary proprietors
hold the common property (including the transferred
land)
for
the
same
term
and
tenure
as
tenants-in-common in the manner as provided in
paragraph (b);
(ii) where the tenure of the transferred land is not similar
to that of the common property held by the
subsidiary proprietors prior to the date of the
registration of the transfer of such land — the
subsidiary proprietors hold the entire term and tenure
transferred to and accepted by the management
corporation on behalf of the subsidiary proprietors as
tenants-in-common in the manner as provided in
paragraph (b);
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
28
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(iii) where a lot is transferred — the term and tenure of
that lot which comprises the additional common
property is to be held for the same term and tenure as
that of the lots held by the subsidiary proprietors
prior to the date of the registration of the transfer;
(iv) if there is a subsisting registered mortgage, charge,
lease or sub-lease or any other encumbrance on the
lot of a subsidiary proprietor — the undivided share
or shares in the transferred land or transferred lot
forming the additional common property is or are to
be held by the subsidiary proprietor of the said lot
subject to the same mortgage, charge, lease or
sub-lease or any other such subsisting encumbrance.
(5) Any reference to a transfer or transferred land in this section
includes a lease of land mentioned in subsection (1)(c).
Amalgamation of whole of common property comprised in 2 or
more parcels
26.—(1) This section applies where 2 or more management
corporations have, in accordance with section 34(5) of the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004, passed their
respective special resolutions to amalgamate their respective
common properties; and the relevant management corporation must
execute an instrument of transfer.
(1A) Upon registration of the instrument of transfer, such common
property is amalgamated and held in the shares proportionate to their
respective share values subject to the same covenants, conditions and
encumbrances, and for the same term and tenure then held by the
subsidiary proprietors in respect of their respective lots prior to the
date of the registration of the transfer by the Registrar.
(2) Such transfer must show the undivided proportionate shares to
be held by each subsidiary proprietor named therein and must be
executed by the relevant transferor management corporations.
(3) The procedure laid down in section 23(2), (2A), (3) and (4)
applies,
with
the
necessary
modifications,
to
the
transferor
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
29
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
management corporations and the subsidiary proprietors of the
parcels to be amalgamated under this section.
(4) Upon the amalgamation of the common property pursuant to the
registration of the transfer by the Registrar —
(a) the transferor management corporations are amalgamated
into a single management corporation (called in this
section the transferee management corporation) which is
to be responsible for all matters relating to the management
of the subdivided buildings and the common property
relating thereto;
(b) all the members of the transferor management corporations
are
the
members
of
the
transferee
management
corporation;
(c) all the members of the management councils of the
transferor management corporations are, until a new
management
council
is
elected
for
the
transferee
management corporation, deemed to be the members of
the management council of the transferee management
corporation;
(d) all
the
properties
of
the
transferor
management
corporations are deemed to be transferred to and vested
in, and all the liabilities of the transferor management
corporations are transferred to and become the liabilities
of, the transferee management corporation; and
(e) all legal proceedings pending by or against the transferor
management corporations may be continued by or against
the transferee management corporation.
(5) In this section —
“liabilities” includes duties;
“properties” includes rights and powers of every description.
Court orders affecting common property
27.—(1) Every instrument of transfer or acceptance of a transfer
lodged for registration under section 36 of the Building Maintenance
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
30
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and Strata Management Act 2004 must be accompanied by a certified
true copy of the order of the court made under that section directing
such transfer or acceptance of a transfer, and where the approval of
the competent authority is required for any subdivision and
amalgamation of any land or common property, a true copy of the
approval given by the competent authority must be lodged with the
instrument.
(2) Upon the registration of the transfer by the Registrar —
(a) in the case of a disposition of all or part of the common
property — all subsidiary proprietors and other persons
having registered interests in the common property are
bound to accept the terms of the order of court and
section 23(4) applies, with the necessary modifications, to
the transfer;
(b) in the case of an addition to the common property —
section
25(3)
and
(4)
applies,
with
the
necessary
modifications, to the transfer; and
(c) in the case of the amalgamation of the common property of
2 or more management corporations — sections 23(4) and
26(2), (4) and (5) apply, with the necessary modifications,
to the amalgamation.
Limitation Act 1959 not to extend to common property
28. No action shall be brought by any person claiming title by
adverse possession to the common property of a parcel or to any
accessory lot or any part thereof created under this Act and the
provisions of the Limitation Act 1959 relating to adverse possession
shall not extend to such common property and accessory lot.
Unity of seisin not to affect easements, etc.
29. Unity of seisin in 2 or more lots does not destroy easements or
restrictions implied or created by this Part, but on the cessation of
such unity they continue in full force and effect as if the seisin had
never been united.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
31
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Share values
30.—(1) Each lot including a provisional lot (except an accessory
lot) shown in a strata title plan has its share value determined as
shown in the strata title application registered under section 9.
(1A) In the case of a strata title plan comprising land and buildings
in respect of which planning permission has been granted on or after
15 April 1976, each lot shown in that plan has the share value as
shown in the schedule of strata units filed with and accepted by the
Commissioner under section 11 of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004.
(2) The share value of a lot determines —
(a) the voting rights of the subsidiary proprietors;
(b) the quantum of the undivided share of each subsidiary
proprietor in the common property; and
(c) the amount of contributions levied by a management
corporation on the subsidiary proprietors of all the lots in a
subdivided building.
Provisional lots
31.—(1) An assurance of any provisional lot for which a subsidiary
strata certificate of title is issued must not be registered under this Act
and the Registrar must enter an appropriate caution on the relevant
subsidiary strata certificate of title prohibiting any assurance of the
provisional lot comprised therein from being registered.
(2) Where an assurance of any provisional lot has been registered,
the registration does not pass any title or interest in the said
provisional lot, and the Registrar must, on discovery of the
registration, cancel the registration, and no person affected by such
cancellation is entitled to any compensation from the assurance fund.
(3) The subsidiary proprietor of a provisional lot is required to
lodge the relevant duplicate subsidiary strata certificate of title and an
application with the Registrar for the cancellation of the Registrar’s
caution mentioned in subsection (1) immediately after the relevant
authority has certified to the effect that all buildings within the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
32
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
provisional lot have been completed to the satisfaction of the relevant
authority.
(4) The Registrar, after receipt of the application lodged for
cancellation of the Registrar’s caution mentioned in subsection (1)
and being satisfied that all buildings within the provisional lot have
been completed to the satisfaction of the relevant authority, must
cancel the caution endorsed on the subsidiary strata certificate of title
and make the appropriate deletion of the word “provisional”
wherever it appears as relating to that provisional lot in the records
maintained by the Registrar, and thereupon that provisional lot
constitutes a lot under this Act.
(5) Where the word “provisional” has been deleted by the Registrar
under subsection (4), any part of the lot which is capable of forming
part of the common property comprised within the same parcel as
shown in the strata title plan which was first registered with the
Registrar forms part of the common property in relation to all the lots
comprised within the same parcel as described in the strata title plan
registered with the Registrar without the need for a resolution made
under section 25 directing the management corporation concerned to
accept a transfer of such part of the lot to form part of the common
property.
(6) Except as provided in subsections (1), (2) and (3), the provisions
of this Act relating to a lot apply in all respects to a provisional lot.
(7) In this section, “assurance” does not include any mortgage or
charge or any application for vesting made under this Act.
Restrictions on subsidiary proprietor’s rights
32. Any term or condition contained in a lease, granted in respect of
a lot (whether created before, on or after 15 April 1976) creating a
leasehold interest of a term of not less than 21 years computed as from
the date of the lodgment of the lease with the Registrar, which seeks
to deprive or deny the lessee under the lease of the lessee’s rights to
exercise the powers conferred upon the lessee by this Act as the
subsidiary proprietor of the lot relating to the management of the
subdivided building and the common property, has no effect.
33. to 76. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
33
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 5
VARIATION OR TERMINATION OF
STRATA SUBDIVISION SCHEME
Variation of strata subdivision scheme consequent upon
damage to or destruction of subdivided building
77.—(1) Where all of the land and buildings comprised in a strata
title plan is the subject of a declaration under section 5 of the Land
Acquisition Act 1966, or any building comprised in a strata title plan
is damaged or destroyed —
(a) any subsidiary proprietor of a lot in the subdivided
building;
(b) where such a lot is subject to a mortgage or charge — the
mortgagee or chargee; or
(c) the management corporation,
may make an application to the court for an order under
subsection (4).
(2) Notice of an application under subsection (1) must be served, in
accordance with the Rules of Court, on —
(a) every person referred to in subsection (1), other than the
applicant;
(b) the Commissioner;
(c) the Registrar;
(d) any person having a reversionary estate or interest in a lot
in the subdivided building concerned; and
(e) such other persons as the court may direct.
(3) The applicant and any person referred to in subsection (2)
(whether or not the person has been served with a notice of the
application) are entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application.
(4) The court may, on an application made under subsection (1)
(except in relation to land and buildings that are the subject of a
declaration under section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966), make
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
34
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
an order to settle a scheme for the reinstatement or continued use of
the subdivided building in whole or in part.
(5) An order made under subsection (4) takes effect on such day as
may be specified in the order.
(6) Without limiting subsection (4), an order made under that
subsection may include directions for or with respect to any one or
more of the following matters:
(a) the substitution for the existing schedule of strata units of a
new schedule of strata units;
(b) the reinstatement in whole or in part of the building;
(c) the transfer or vesting of the interests of subsidiary
proprietors of lots which have been wholly or partly
destroyed to or in the management corporation free from
mortgages and charges;
(d) the application of any insurance moneys received by the
management corporation in respect of the damage to or
destruction of the subdivided building;
(e) the payment of moneys to or by the management
corporation or the subsidiary proprietors or any one or
more of them;
(f) any matter in respect of which it is, in the opinion of the
court, just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case,
to make provision in the order.
(7) An order made under subsection (4) has effect according to its
tenor.
(8) Where the court is of the opinion that an order should not be
made under subsection (4), it may, upon application made by any
person entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application made under subsection (1) or of its own motion, direct
that the application be treated as an application for an order under
section 78.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
35
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(9) Where the court makes a direction under subsection (8) —
(a) the application that is the subject of the direction is deemed
to be made under section 78 by a person entitled to make
the application; and
(b) the applicant under subsection (1), as well as any other
person entitled to appear and be heard under section 78, is
entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application.
(10) The court may vary any order made under subsection (4) on the
application of any person entitled to appear and be heard on the
hearing of the application for that order.
Termination of strata subdivision scheme by court
78.—(1) An application to the court for an order for the termination
of the strata subdivision of a subdivided building and the cancellation
of the strata title plan registered under this Act may be made by —
(a) any subsidiary proprietor of a lot in the subdivided
building;
(b) where such a lot is subject to a mortgage or a charge — the
mortgagee or chargee; or
(c) the management corporation.
(1A) The court on being satisfied that it is just and equitable that the
strata subdivision of a subdivided building be terminated may make
an order to that effect after having considered —
(a) the scheme and intent of this Act;
(b) the probability of unfairness to one or more subsidiary
proprietors if termination of subdivision is not ordered; and
(c) the rights and interests of the subsidiary proprietors as a
whole.
(2) Notice of an application under subsection (1) must be served, in
accordance with the Rules of Court, on —
(a) every person referred to in subsection (1), other than the
applicant;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
36
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) the Commissioner;
(c) the Registrar;
(d) any person having a reversionary estate or interest in a lot
in the subdivided building; and
(e) such other persons (including creditors of the management
corporation) as the court may direct.
(3) The applicant and any person referred to in subsection (2)
(whether or not the person has been served with a notice of the
application) are entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application.
(4) An order made under subsection (1) takes effect on such day as
may be specified in the order.
(5) An order made under subsection (1) must include directions for
or with respect to the following matters:
(a) the sale or disposition of any property of the management
corporation;
(b) the discharge of the liabilities of the management
corporation;
(c) the persons liable to contribute moneys required for the
discharge of the liabilities of the management corporation
and the proportionate liability of each such person;
(d) the
distribution
of
the
assets
of
the
management
corporation and the proportionate entitlement of each
person under that distribution;
(e) the administration, powers, duties and functions of the
management corporation;
(f) the voting power at meetings of the management
corporation of persons referred to in paragraph (c) or (d);
(g) any matter in respect of which it is, in the opinion of the
court, just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case,
to make provision in the order; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
37
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(h) the winding up of the management corporation (including
the appointment, powers, duties and functions of any
person to carry out the winding up).
(6) Upon an order under this section taking effect —
(a) the persons who, immediately before the order took effect,
were subsidiary proprietors of the lots that are the subject
of the strata title plan concerned, cease to be subsidiary
proprietors of those lots and are entitled to the parcel as
tenants-in-common in the shares proportional to their
respective share values and for the same term and tenure as
their respective lots were held by them prior to the date the
order took effect;
(b) any subsisting encumbrance registered against any of the
lots mentioned in paragraph (a) is an encumbrance on the
share of the subsidiary proprietor concerned in the
registered land comprising the parcel, and a memorial or
notification of the encumbrance entered in the volume and
folio of the land comprising the registered land must bear
the same date as the date of registration of that
encumbrance against the lot;
(c) all statutory easements implied under this Act cease to
affect the registered land comprising the parcel or any part
thereof; and
(d) the former subsidiary proprietors have the power to
transfer their interests and estates in the parcel or any
part thereof.
(7) The provisions of an order made under this section have effect
despite any provision of this Act, other than this section.
(8) An order made under subsection (1) has effect according to its
tenor.
(9) Where the court is of the opinion that an order should not be
made under subsection (1), it may, upon application made by any
person entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application made under subsection (1) or of its own motion, direct
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
38
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
that the application be treated as an application for an order under
section 77.
(9A) Where the court makes a direction under subsection (9) —
(a) the application that is the subject of the direction is deemed
to be an application made under section 77 by a person
entitled to make the application; and
(b) the applicant under subsection (1), as well as any other
person entitled to appear and be heard under section 77, is
entitled to appear and be heard on the hearing of the
application.
(10) The court may, from time to time, vary any order made under
subsection (1) on the application of any person who was entitled to
appear and be heard on the hearing of the application for that order.
(11) No application shall be made under this section where the only
reason for the application by the subsidiary proprietors for the sale of
all the lots and common property in a strata title plan is that they —
(a) have not been able to satisfy the requirement under
section 84A(1) or 84FA(2);
(b) have
been
able
to
satisfy
the
requirement
under
section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) but have not made an
application to a Board under section 84A(1) or 84FA(2); or
(c) have
been
able
to
satisfy
the
requirement
under
section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) but their application for an
order under section 84A or 84FA has been refused by a
Board.
[2/2012]
Interchangeability of notices
79. Any notice served under section 77 or 78 is, where it relates to
an application which is required to be treated as an application under
the other section, deemed to be a notice served under that other
section.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
39
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consequences of making order under section 77 or 78
80.—(1) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order made under
section 77 or 78, the Registrar must make appropriate entries in the
subsidiary strata land-register of the effect of the order.
(2) Where, pursuant to the receipt of a certified copy of an order
made under section 78, the Registrar has made entries in accordance
with subsection (1), the Registrar must, as soon as practicable after
making the entries, cancel each folio of the subsidiary strata
land-register which evidences title to a lot that is the subject of the
strata title plan.
Termination of strata subdivision scheme by management
corporation
81.—(1) This section applies where a management corporation has,
in accordance with section 84 of the Building Maintenance and Strata
Management Act 2004, resolved to terminate the strata subdivision of
the building.
(2) A management corporation must —
(a) within 14 days after the passing of a resolution referred to
in subsection (1), give notice of the resolution in one or
more newspapers circulating in Singapore; and
(b) within 30 days after the passing of the resolution, lodge an
application with the Registrar to terminate the strata
subdivision.
(3) If
a
management
corporation
fails
to
comply
with
subsection (2), the management corporation and every officer of
the management corporation who is in default shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.
(4) Upon registration of an application under subsection (2)(b) to
terminate the strata subdivision, the Registrar must cancel the
relevant folios of the subsidiary strata land-register and enter a
notification of the cancellation of the strata subdivision of the
building and a memorial of the vesting of the parcel in the subsidiary
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
40
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
proprietors as tenants-in-common in the relevant folio of the
land-register comprising the parcel.
(5) Upon the entry of that memorial —
(a) each subsidiary proprietor ceases to be a subsidiary
proprietor of the lot, and is entitled to the parcel as a
tenant-in-common with the other subsidiary proprietors in
the shares proportional to the subsidiary proprietor’s share
value and for the same term and tenure held by the
subsidiary
proprietor
in
respect
of
the
subsidiary
proprietor’s lot;
(b) any subsisting encumbrance registered against a lot is an
encumbrance on the share of the subsidiary proprietor
concerned in the registered land comprising the parcel, and
a memorial or notification of the encumbrance entered in
the volume and folio of the land-register comprising that
registered land must bear the same date as the date of
registration of that encumbrance against the lot; and
(c) all statutory easements implied under this Act cease to
affect the registered land comprising the parcel or any part
thereof.
(6) The former subsidiary proprietors may by 90% resolution direct
the management corporation to transfer the parcel or any part thereof.
(7) The management corporation, if it is satisfied that the resolution
was duly passed and that all persons having registered interests in the
parcel have consented in writing to the release of their respective
interests in the registered land comprising the parcel or any part
thereof, intended to be transferred, must execute the appropriate
transfer.
(7A) The transfer under subsection (7) is valid and effective
without execution by any person having a registered interest in the
parcel, and the receipt of the management corporation for any moneys
payable to the management corporation under the transfer is a
sufficient discharge, and exonerates the person taking under the
transfer from seeing to the application, or being answerable for any
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
41
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
loss or misapplication, of the moneys expressed to have been so
received.
(8) A transfer under subsection (7) must not be accepted for
registration unless accompanied by a certificate in the prescribed
form under the seal of the management corporation that the resolution
was duly passed and that all necessary consents were given, in favour
of a purchaser of the parcel and in favour of the Registrar, and such a
certificate is conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(9) When registered land or any part thereof is transferred by a
former subsidiary proprietor or the management corporation after an
application under subsection (2)(b) to terminate the strata subdivision
has been lodged with the Registrar —
(a) the former subsidiary proprietor, if the transferor, must
surrender
to
the
Registrar
the
former
subsidiary
proprietor’s duplicate subsidiary strata certificate of title
relating to the former subsidiary proprietor’s lot;
(b) the management corporation, if it is transferring the land
on behalf of all the former subsidiary proprietors, must
surrender to the Registrar on behalf of all the former
subsidiary proprietors their duplicate subsidiary strata
certificates of title; and
(c) the Registrar, on receipt of the duplicate subsidiary strata
certificate or certificates of title comprising the lot or lots
(as the case may be), must cancel the relevant folios of the
subsidiary strata land-register, and the registration of the
transfer is effected by the Registrar issuing a certificate of
title for the undivided share in the registered land or for the
whole of the registered land transferred to the transferee, as
the case may be.
(10) Despite the termination of a strata subdivision under this
section, the relevant record of the subsidiary strata land-register may
be used in evidence as a record of matters relating to the subdivision
before its termination so long as the management corporation
continues in existence.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
42
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(11) Where a transfer of the parcel made under subsection (7) has
been lodged with and registered by the Registrar, the management
corporation continues in existence for the purpose of winding up its
affairs.
(12) Until a liquidator has been appointed by the management
corporation for the purpose of carrying out the winding up of the
management corporation, the council of the management corporation
must continue to perform the management corporation’s business for
the purpose of winding up its affairs.
(13) On a management corporation being wound up —
(a) every former subsidiary proprietor is liable to contribute to
the assets of the management corporation to an amount
sufficient for the payment of its debts and liabilities and the
costs, charges and expenses of the winding up; and
(b) the assets of the management corporation (if any) must be
distributed among the former subsidiary proprietors,
in the same proportion as the proportion of contributions for which
the former subsidiary proprietors would have been liable in
accordance with section 39(2) of the Building Maintenance and
Strata Management Act 2004.
Liquidators
82.—(1) Where a management corporation resolves that the strata
subdivision of a building be terminated, it must immediately in
general meeting appoint one or more liquidators for the purpose of
winding up the affairs and distributing the assets of the management
corporation and may fix the remuneration to be paid to the liquidator
or liquidators, as the case may be.
(2) Where a liquidator has not been appointed for a management
corporation under this section, the court may, on the application of a
former subsidiary proprietor, a former mortgagee or a creditor of the
management corporation, appoint a liquidator for the management
corporation.
(3) On the appointment of a liquidator all the powers of the council
of the management corporation cease and the liquidator has the power
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
43
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
to carry on the management corporation’s business for the purpose of
winding up its affairs.
(4) The management corporation may in general meeting convened
by any former subsidiary proprietor by special resolution of which
special notice has been given to all the former subsidiary proprietors,
former mortgagees, the creditors and the liquidators, remove any
liquidator but no such resolution is effective to remove a liquidator if
the court on the application of the liquidator or a creditor or a former
mortgagee has ordered that the liquidator be not removed.
(5) If a vacancy occurs by death, resignation, removal or otherwise
in the office of a liquidator, the management corporation in general
meeting must immediately fill the vacancy by the appointment of a
liquidator and fix the remuneration to be paid to the liquidator, and for
that purpose a general meeting may be convened by any former
subsidiary proprietor or, if there were more liquidators than one, by
the continuing liquidators.
(6) The meeting must be held in the manner provided by this Act or
in such manner as is on application by any former subsidiary
proprietor or by the continuing liquidators determined by the court.
(7) The court may, on the application of a former subsidiary
proprietor, a former mortgagee or the liquidator and on being satisfied
that the affairs of the management corporation have been wound up,
make an order that the liquidator be released and that the management
corporation be dissolved and on the expiry of 3 months of the lodging
of the order with the Registrar and the Commissioner, the
management corporation is dissolved.
(8) Despite subsection (7), the court may, on the application of the
liquidator or of any other person who appears to the court to be
interested, make an order deferring the date at which the dissolution
of the management corporation is to take effect for such time as the
court thinks fit.
(9) The person on whose application an order of the court under this
section is made must, within 21 days after the making of the order,
lodge with the Registrar and with the Commissioner a certified copy
of the order, and if the person fails to do so the person shall be guilty
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
44
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.
Qualifications of liquidator
83. A person must not be appointed as a liquidator of a management
corporation unless the person is a licensed insolvency practitioner
under the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.
[40/2018]
Application to subsidiary management corporations
83A. Sections
81,
82
and
83
apply,
with
the
necessary
modifications, where a subsidiary management corporation has
resolved to terminate its limited common property, in accordance
with section 84 of the Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004.
Interpretation of sections 81 and 82
84. In sections 81 and 82 —
“former mortgagee” means a person who, or a body which,
immediately before the subdivision of a subdivided building
is terminated under this Part, was the registered mortgagee of
a lot, forming part of the subdivided building;
“former subsidiary proprietor” means a person who, or a body
which, immediately before the subdivision of a subdivided
building is terminated under this Part, was the subsidiary
proprietor of a lot, forming part of the subdivided building.
PART 5A
COLLECTIVE SALE OF PROPERTY
Application for collective sale of parcel by majority of
subsidiary proprietors who have made conditional sale and
purchase agreement
84A.—(1) An application for an order for the sale of all the lots and
common property in a strata title plan may be made by —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
45
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots with not less than 90%
of the share values and not less than 90% of the total area of
all the lots (excluding the area of any accessory lot) as
shown in the subsidiary strata certificates of title where less
than 10 years have passed since the date of the issue of the
latest temporary occupation permit on completion of any
building (not being any common property) comprised in
the strata title plan or, if no temporary occupation permit
was issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan,
whichever is the later; or
(b) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots with not less than 80%
of the share values and not less than 80% of the total area of
all the lots (excluding the area of any accessory lot) as
shown in the subsidiary strata certificates of title where
10 years or more have passed since the date of the issue of
the latest temporary occupation permit on completion of
any building (not being any common property) comprised
in the strata title plan or, if no temporary occupation permit
was issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan,
whichever is the later,
who have agreed in writing to sell all the lots and common property in
the strata title plan to a purchaser under a sale and purchase
agreement which specifies the proposed method of distributing the
sale proceeds to all the subsidiary proprietors (whether in cash or kind
or both), subject to an order being made under subsection (6) or (7).
[13/2010]
(1A) For the purposes of a collective sale under this section and
before the signing of the collective sale agreement by any subsidiary
proprietor —
(a) there must be constituted a collective sale committee to act
jointly on behalf of the subsidiary proprietors of the lots
whose members are elected by the subsidiary proprietors
of the lots at a general meeting of the management
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
46
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
corporation
convened
in
accordance
with
the
Second Schedule; and
(b) the Third Schedule has effect as respects the collective sale
committee, its composition, constitution, members and
proceedings.
(2) The subsidiary proprietors mentioned in subsection (1) must
appoint not more than 3 persons from the collective sale committee
mentioned in subsection (1A) to act jointly as their authorised
representatives in connection with any application made under
subsection (1).
(2A) An application under subsection (1) for an order for the sale of
all the lots and common property in a strata title plan —
(a) must be made to a Board in the first instance; and
(b) may be made to the General Division of the High Court
thereafter if, and only if, a section 84A stop order is issued
by the Board under subsection (6A)(b) with respect to the
application to that Board in respect of the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(2B) An application to the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (1) for an order for the sale of all the lots and
common property in a strata title plan must be made within 14 days
after a section 84A stop order is issued by a Board under
subsection (6A)(b) in relation to the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(3) Subject to subsection (7C), no application may be made to a
Board under subsection (1) by the subsidiary proprietors mentioned
in subsection (1) unless they have complied with the requirements
specified in the First, Second and Third Schedules and have provided
an undertaking to pay the costs of the Board under subsection (5).
[13/2010]
(4) In the case of an application to a Board under subsection (1) for
an order for the sale of all the lots and common property in a strata
title plan, each of the following persons may file an objection to the
sale, stating the grounds of objection, within 21 days after the date of
the notice served pursuant to paragraph 1(e) of the First Schedule or
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
47
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
such longer period as the Board allows in exceptional circumstances,
whether before or after the end of the 21 days:
(a) a subsidiary proprietor of any lot in the strata title plan who
has not agreed in writing to the sale;
(b) a mortgagee, chargee or other person (other than a lessee)
with an estate or interest in land and whose interest is
notified on the land-register for that lot.
[13/2010]
(4A) Where
a
section
84A
stop
order
is
issued
under
subsection (6A)(b) in respect of an application to a Board under
subsection (1) for an order for the sale of all the lots and common
property in a strata title plan, and an application is then made to the
General Division of the High Court under subsection (1) for an order
for the same sale of all the lots and common property in the same
strata title plan, any person referred to in subsection (4)(a) or (b) who
filed an objection to the Board (but no others) may re-file the person’s
objection to the sale, stating the same grounds of objection, to the
General Division of the High Court in the manner and within the time
delimited by the Rules of Court.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(5) The Board has power —
(a) to mediate in any matter arising from an application made
to it under subsection (1);
(aa) to summon any person whom the Board is of the view is
connected or otherwise related to the sale which is the
subject of the application, to attend before the Board at the
time and place specified in the summons and to produce
such books, documents or other records in the person’s
custody or control which the person is required by the
summons to produce;
(b) to call for a valuation report or other report and to require
the subsidiary proprietors mentioned in subsection (1) to
pay for the costs; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
48
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) to impose such conditions as it may think fair and
reasonable in approving an application made to it under
subsection (1).
[13/2010]
(5A) Where an application is made under subsection (1) to the
General Division of the High Court in the circumstances described in
subsection (2A)(b), the General Division of the High Court, without
prejudice to any other powers it may have under law, has power —
(a) to summon any person whom the General Division of the
High Court is of the view is connected or otherwise related
to the sale which is the subject of the application, to attend
before the General Division of the High Court at the time
and place specified in the summons and to produce such
books, documents or other records in the person’s custody
or control which the person is required by the summons to
produce;
(b) to call for a valuation report or other report and to require
the subsidiary proprietors mentioned in subsection (1) to
pay for the costs; and
(c) to impose such conditions as it may think fair and
reasonable in approving the application.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(6) Where an application has been made under subsection (1) to a
Board and no objection has been filed under subsection (4), the Board
must, subject to subsection (9), approve the application and order that
the lots and common property in the strata title plan be sold.
[13/2010]
(6A) Where an application is made under subsection (1) to a Board,
and one or more objections have been filed under subsection (4) in
relation to that application —
(a) the Board must mediate matters that are in dispute between
the objectors and the applicants to achieve a resolution of
the dispute; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
49
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) if —
(i) at the end of a period of 60 days starting from the first
day set aside for mediation; or
(ii) mediation has proceeded as far as it reasonably can
in an attempt to achieve a resolution of the dispute
but has nevertheless failed to resolve the dispute,
whichever first occurs, one or more of those objections are
not withdrawn, the Board must, subject to subsection (6B),
order a discontinuance of all proceedings before it in
connection with that application (called in this section a
section 84A stop order).
[13/2010]
(6B) No section 84A stop order shall be made by a Board under
subsection (6A)(b) with respect to an application made to it under
subsection (1) unless —
(a) the Board has, by notice served on every objector who filed
an objection under subsection (4) in relation to that
application and the authorised representatives of the
applicants,
informed
the
objector
and
authorised
representatives of its intention to make a section 84A
stop order; and
(b) at the end of a period of 7 days after the notice under
paragraph (a) is so served, one or more of those objections
so filed are not withdrawn.
[13/2010]
(7) Where one or more objections have been filed under
subsection (4A) in respect of an application under subsection (1) to
the General Division of the High Court, the General Division of the
High Court is to, subject to subsection (9), approve the application
and order that all the lots and common property in the strata title plan
be sold unless, having regard to the objections, the General Division
of the High Court is satisfied that —
(a) any objector, being a subsidiary proprietor, will incur a
financial loss; or
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
50
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) the proceeds of sale for any lot to be received by any
objector, being a subsidiary proprietor, mortgagee or
chargee, are insufficient to redeem any mortgage or
charge in respect of the lot.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7A) An order made under subsection (7) by the General Division
of the High Court may, with the consent of the collective sale
committee, include an order that the proceeds of sale for any lot to be
received by an objector, being a subsidiary proprietor who has filed
an objection under subsection (4A), be increased if the General
Division of the High Court is satisfied that it would be just and
equitable to do so.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7B) The total sum ordered by the General Division of the High
Court for all the objectors under subsection (7A) is to be paid from the
proceeds of sale of all the subsidiary proprietors and must not exceed
the aggregate sum of 0.25% of the proceeds of sale for each lot or
$2,000 for each lot, whichever is the higher.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7C) A Board must not invalidate an application to the Board for an
order under subsection (1) or section 84D(2), 84E(3) or 84FA(2) by
reason only of non-compliance with any requirement in the First,
Second or Third Schedule if the Board is satisfied that such
non-compliance does not prejudice the interest of any person, and
the Board may make such order as may be necessary to rectify the
non-compliance and such order for costs.
(8) For the purposes of subsection (7)(a), a subsidiary proprietor —
(a) is taken to have incurred a financial loss if the proceeds of
sale for the subsidiary proprietor’s lot, after such deduction
as the General Division of the High Court may allow
(including all or any of the deductions specified in the
Fourth Schedule), are less than the price the subsidiary
proprietor paid for that lot;
(b) is not to be taken to have incurred a financial loss by reason
only that the subsidiary proprietor’s net gain from the sale
of the subsidiary proprietor’s lot will be less than the other
subsidiary proprietors; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
51
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) is not to be taken to have incurred a financial loss by reason
that the proceeds of sale for the subsidiary proprietor’s lot,
after such deduction as the General Division of the High
Court may allow (including all or any of the deductions
specified in the Fourth Schedule), are less than the price the
subsidiary proprietor paid for that lot if the subsidiary
proprietor had purchased the lot after a collective sale
committee had signed a sale and purchase agreement to sell
all the lots and common property to a purchaser.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(9) The General Division of the High Court or a Board must not
approve an application made under subsection (1) —
(a) if the General Division of the High Court or Board (as the
case may be) is satisfied that —
(i) the transaction is not in good faith after taking into
account only the following factors:
(A) the sale price for the lots and the common
property in the strata title plan;
(B) the method of distributing the proceeds of sale;
and
(C) the relationship of the purchaser to any of the
subsidiary proprietors; or
(ii) the sale and purchase agreement would require any
subsidiary proprietor who has not agreed in writing
to the sale to be a party to any arrangement for the
development of the lots and the common property in
the strata title plan; or
(b) if the collective sale committee does not consent to any
order made by the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (7A).
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(10) Where no objection has been filed under subsection (4) to a
Board or under subsection (4A) to the General Division of the High
Court, the determination under subsection (9) is to be made by the
General Division of the High Court or the Board on the basis of the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
52
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
facts available to the General Division of the High Court or Board, as
the case may be.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(11) The General Division of the High Court or a Board may make
all such other orders and give such directions as may be necessary or
expedient to give effect to any order made under subsection (6) or (7)
for the sale of all the lots and common property in a strata title plan,
including but not limited to a direction apportioning all reasonable
costs and expenses incurred in connection with the sale that is the
subject of an order under subsection (6) or (7) to be borne by all or
any subsidiary proprietors of the lots in the strata title plan, whether or
not they are objectors.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(11A) Any order or direction made by a Strata Titles Board before
15 July 2010 apportioning among all or any subsidiary proprietors of
the lots in a strata title plan or development, whether or not they are
objectors, all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection
with a sale that is the subject of an order under subsection (6) or (7) is
deemed to have been validly made in accordance with subsection (11)
as if subsection (11) had been in force on that date.
[13/2010]
(12) The General Division of the High Court or a Board may, at any
time it thinks fit, extend, vary, revoke or discharge any order made
under this section, and may vary any term or condition upon or
subject to which any such order has been made.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(13) A notice sent by registered post under the First Schedule is
deemed to be duly served on the person to whom it is addressed
2 days after the day on which the notice was posted, despite the fact
that the letter may be returned by the post office as undelivered.
(14) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend or add to the
First, Second, Third and Fourth Schedules.
(14A) Where an application under subsection (1) relates to any land
or housing estate to which the repealed section 126A or the repealed
HUDC Housing Estates Act (Cap. 131, 1985 Revised Edition)
applied immediately before 1 March 2021 —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
53
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) any reference in subsection (1)(a) or (b) to the date of the
issue of the latest certificate of statutory completion for any
building (not being any common property) comprised in
the strata title plan is a reference to the date of completion
of the construction of the last building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan as
certified by the relevant authority;
(b) any reference in subsection (1)(a) or (b) to the date of the
issue of the latest certificate of statutory completion for any
building (not being any common property) comprised in
the strata title plan is a reference to the date of the issue of
the certificate of fitness for any building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan for
land specified in the First Schedule to the repealed HUDC
Housing Estates Act (Cap. 131, 1985 Revised Edition);
and
(c) a certificate purporting to be under the hand of an officer of
the relevant authority specifying the date of completion of
the construction of the last building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan
mentioned in paragraph (a) is, in the absence of proof to
the contrary, and without further proof of the signature
appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified therein.
[4/2021]
(15) In this section, “subsidiary proprietor” includes a successor in
title.
Effect of order of General Division of High Court or Board
84B.—(1) Where the General Division of the High Court or a
Board has made an order under section 84A(6), (7) or (11) —
(a) the order binds all the subsidiary proprietors of the lots in
the strata title plan, their successors in title and assigns and
any mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or
interest in land;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
54
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots must sell the lots and
common property in accordance with the sale and purchase
agreement; and
(c) a lease affecting any of the lots in the strata title plan (other
than a lease held by a subsidiary proprietor) determines, if
there is no earlier agreed date, on the date on which vacant
possession is to be given to the purchaser of the lots and
common property.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(2) Nothing in subsection (1)(c) prejudices the rights of any lessee
of a subsidiary proprietor to compensation from the subsidiary
proprietor.
(3) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(4) The subsidiary proprietors of the lots who have not agreed in
writing to the sale under section 84A and any mortgagee, chargee or
other person with an estate or interest in those lots must, for the
purposes of the sale of the lots and common property, produce the
subsidiary strata certificates of title for the lots to the person having
conduct
of
the
sale,
the
representatives
appointed
under
section 84A(2) or to their solicitors.
Power of General Division of High Court or Board to appoint
person to act for certain subsidiary proprietor
84C.—(1) Where the General Division of the High Court or a
Board has made an order under section 84A(6), (7) or (11), the
General Division of the High Court or the president, deputy president
or registrar of the Board (as the case may be) may, on application by
the representatives of the subsidiary proprietors appointed under
section 84A(2), appoint any person to deal with all matters in
connection with the sale of any lot —
(a) where the subsidiary proprietor of the lot has died and no
personal representative has been appointed; or
(b) in such other case as the General Division of the High
Court or the president, deputy president or registrar of the
Board (as the case may be) thinks fit.
[13/2010; 2/2012; 40/2019]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
55
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The General Division of the High Court or the president, deputy
president or registrar of the Board (as the case may be) may authorise
the person appointed under subsection (1) to act for the subsidiary
proprietor concerned in all aspects of the sale, including the
redemption of mortgages and charges, the execution of the transfer,
the receipt of moneys, the settlement of encumbrances on the lot,
applying for a replacement subsidiary strata certificate of title, giving
valid receipts thereof and as soon as practicable paying the remaining
moneys into court under section 62 of the Trustees Act 1967.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(3) The execution of any instrument in respect of any lot by the
person appointed under subsection (1) has the same force and validity
as if it had been executed by the subsidiary proprietor in whom the lot
is vested.
(4) When the transfers of the lots in the strata title plan are lodged
for registration under this Act, the authorised representatives or the
solicitor acting for the subsidiary proprietors or the person appointed
under subsection (1) must certify in such form as the Registrar may
approve that the provisions of section 84A have been complied with;
and the certificate in favour of the purchaser of the lots and common
property and the Registrar is conclusive evidence of the facts stated
therein.
Application for collective sale of parcel not registered under
this Act by majority of proprietors where proprietors of flats
own land
84D.—(1) This section applies where there are subsisting leases of
flats in a development registered under the Registration of Deeds
Act 1988 or the Land Titles Act 1993 and the proprietors of the flats
own the land comprised in the development.
(2) An application for an order for the sale of all the flats and the
land in a development to which this section applies may be made
by —
(a) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than
90% share of the land and not less than 90% of the total
area of all the flats where less than 10 years have passed
since the date of the issue of the latest temporary
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
56
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
occupation permit on completion of any building (not
being
any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development or, if no temporary occupation permit was
issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development,
whichever is the later; or
(b) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than
80% share of the land and not less than 80% of the total
area of all the flats where 10 years or more have passed
since the date of the issue of the latest temporary
occupation permit on completion of any building (not
being
any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development or, if no temporary occupation permit was
issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development,
whichever is the later,
who have agreed in writing to sell all the flats and the land in the
development to a purchaser under a sale and purchase agreement
which specifies the proposed method of distributing the sale proceeds
to all the proprietors of the flats (whether in cash or kind or both),
subject to an order being made under subsection (4) or (5).
[13/2010]
(2A) An application under subsection (2) for an order for the sale of
all the flats and the land in a development to which this section
applies —
(a) must be made to a Board in the first instance; and
(b) may be made to the General Division of the High Court
thereafter if, and only if, a section 84D stop order is issued
by the Board under subsection (4A)(b) with respect to the
application to that Board in respect of the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(2B) An application to the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (2) for an order for the sale of all the flats and the
land in a development to which this section applies must be made
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
57
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
within a period of 14 days after a section 84D stop order is issued by a
Board under subsection (4A)(b) in relation to the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(3) In the case of an application to a Board under subsection (2) for
an order for the sale of all the flats and the land in a development to
which this section applies, each of the following persons may file an
objection to the sale, stating the grounds for the objection, within
21 days after the date of the notice served pursuant to paragraph 1(e)
of the First Schedule or such longer period as the Board allows in
exceptional circumstances, whether before or after the end of the
21 days:
(a) a proprietor of any flat in the development who has not
agreed in writing to the sale;
(b) a mortgagee, chargee or other person (other than a lessee)
with an estate or interest in the flat and whose interest is
notified on the land-register for that flat.
[13/2010]
(3A) Where
a
section
84D
stop
order
is
issued
under
subsection (4A)(b) in respect of an application to a Board under
subsection (2) for an order for the sale of all the flats and the land in a
development to which this section applies, and an application is made
to the General Division of the High Court under subsection (2) for an
order for the same sale of all the flats and the land in the same
development, any person referred to in subsection (3)(a) or (b) who
filed an objection to the Board (but no others) may re-file the person’s
objection to the sale, stating the same grounds of objection, to the
General Division of the High Court in the manner and within the time
delimited by the Rules of Court.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(4) Where an application has been made to a Board under
subsection
(2)
and
no
objection
has
been
filed
under
subsection (3), the Board must, subject to subsection (7), approve
the application and order that the flats and the land in the
development be sold.
[13/2010]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
58
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4A) Where an application is made under subsection (2) to a Board,
and one or more objections have been filed under subsection (3) in
relation to that application —
(a) the Board must mediate matters that are in dispute between
the objectors and the applicants to achieve a resolution of
the dispute; and
(b) if —
(i) at the end of a period of 60 days starting from the first
day set aside for mediation; or
(ii) mediation has proceeded as far as it reasonably can
in an attempt to achieve a resolution of the dispute
but has nevertheless failed to resolve the dispute,
whichever first occurs, one or more of those objections are
not withdrawn, the Board must, subject to subsection (4B),
order a discontinuance of all proceedings before it in
connection with that application (called in this section a
section 84D stop order).
[13/2010]
(4B) A section 84D stop order must not be made by a Board under
subsection (4A)(b) with respect to an application made to it under
subsection (2) unless —
(a) the Board has, by notice served on every objector who filed
an objection under subsection (3) in relation to that
application and the authorised representatives of the
applicants,
informed
the
objector
and
authorised
representatives of its intention to make a section 84D
stop order; and
(b) at the end of a period of 7 days after the notice under
paragraph (a) is so served, one or more of those objections
so filed are not withdrawn.
[13/2010]
(5) Where one or more objections have been filed under
subsection (3A) in respect of an application to the General
Division of the High Court under subsection (2), the General
Division of the High Court is to, subject to subsection (7), approve the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
59
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
application and order that the flats and the land in the development be
sold unless, having regard to the objections, the General Division of
the High Court is satisfied that —
(a) any objector, being a proprietor, will incur a financial loss;
or
(b) the proceeds of sale for any flat to be received by any
objector, being a proprietor, mortgagee or chargee, are
insufficient to redeem any mortgage or charge in respect of
the flat.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(5A) An order made under subsection (5) by the General Division
of the High Court may, with the consent of the collective sale
committee, include an order that the proceeds of sale for any flat to be
received by an objector, being a proprietor who has filed an objection
under subsection (3A), be increased if the General Division of the
High Court is satisfied that it would be just and equitable to do so.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(5B) The total sum ordered by the General Division of the High
Court for all the objectors under subsection (5A) is to be paid from the
proceeds of sale of all the proprietors and must not exceed the
aggregate sum of 0.25% of the proceeds of sale for each flat or $2,000
for each flat, whichever is the higher.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(6) For the purposes of subsection (5)(a), a proprietor —
(a) is taken to have incurred a financial loss if the proceeds of
sale for the proprietor’s flat, after any deduction allowed by
the General Division of the High Court, are less than the
price the proprietor paid for that flat;
(b) is not to be taken to have incurred a financial loss by reason
only that the proprietor’s net gain from the sale of the
proprietor’s flat will be less than the other proprietors.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7) The General Division of the High Court or a Board must not
approve an application made under subsection (2) —
(a) if the General Division of the High Court or Board (as the
case may be) is satisfied that —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
60
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(i) the transaction is not in good faith after taking into
account only the following factors:
(A) the sale price for the flats and the land in the
development;
(B) the method of distributing the proceeds of sale;
and
(C) the relationship of the purchaser to any of the
proprietors; or
(ii) the sale and purchase agreement would require any
proprietor who has not agreed in writing to the sale to
be a party to any arrangement for the development of
the flats and the land in the development; or
(b) if the collective sale committee does not consent to any
order made by the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (5A).
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(8) Where no objection has been filed under subsection (3) to a
Board or under subsection (3A) to the General Division of the High
Court, the determination under subsection (7) is to be made by the
General Division of the High Court or the Board on the basis of the
facts available to the General Division of the High Court or Board, as
the case may be.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(9) Sections 84A(1A), (2), (3), (5), (5A), (7C), (8)(a), (b) and (c),
(11), (11A), (12) and (13), 84B and 84C and the Second and
Third Schedules apply, with the necessary modifications, to any
application or order made under this section.
[13/2010; 2/2012]
(9A) In the application of section 84A(1A) and the Second and
Third Schedules to any development to which this section applies,
any reference to a management corporation is to be read as a
reference to the proprietors of the flats.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
61
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(10) In this section —
“development” means any parcel of land with one or more
buildings where the parcel is owned by the proprietors of the
flats;
“proprietor” includes a successor in title.
Application for collective sale where proprietors of flats own
leasehold tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure in flats not
registered under this Act but do not own land
84E.—(1) This section applies where there are subsisting leases of
flats in a development registered under the Registration of Deeds
Act 1988 or the Land Titles Act 1993 for a leasehold tenure of
850 years or more or for such other tenure as the Minister may, by
notification in the Gazette, specify and where the proprietors of the
flats do not own the land comprised in the development.
(2) The proprietors of 25% of the flats to which this section applies
may apply to the Registrar for notional shares in the land to be
assigned to each of the flats based on the method used by the
Commissioner for the allocation of share values.
(3) An application for an order for the sale of all the flats and the
land in a development to which this section applies may be made
by —
(a) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than
90% notional share of the land and not less than 90% of
the total area of all the flats where less than 10 years have
passed since the date of the issue of the latest temporary
occupation permit on completion of any building (not
being
any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development or, if no temporary occupation permit was
issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development,
whichever is the later; or
(b) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than 80% of
notional share of the land and not less than 80% of the total
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
62
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
area of all the flats where 10 years or more have passed
since the date of the issue of the latest temporary
occupation permit on completion of any building (not
being
any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development or, if no temporary occupation permit was
issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common
property)
comprised
in
the
development,
whichever is the later,
who have agreed in writing to sell all the flats in the development to a
purchaser under a sale and purchase agreement which specifies the
proposed method of distributing the sale proceeds to all the
proprietors of the flats (whether in cash or kind or both), subject to
an order being made under subsection (6) or (7).
[13/2010]
(3A) An application under subsection (3) for an order for the sale of
all the flats and the land in a development to which this section
applies —
(a) must be made to a Board in the first instance; and
(b) may be made to the General Division of the High Court
thereafter if, and only if, a section 84E stop order is issued
by the Board under subsection (6A)(b) with respect to the
application to that Board in respect of the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(3B) An application to the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (3) for an order for the sale of all the flats and the
land in a development to which this section applies must be made
within 14 days after a section 84E stop order is issued by a Board
under subsection (6A)(b) in relation to the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(4) The proprietors of the flats mentioned in subsection (3) must
also serve a copy of the notice to be served pursuant to the
First Schedule on the proprietor of the land and every mortgagee,
chargee or other person with an estate or interest in the land and
whose interest is notified on the land-register for that land.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
63
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) In the case of an application to a Board under subsection (3) for
an order for the sale of all the flats and the land in a development to
which this section applies, each of the following persons may file an
objection to the sale, stating the grounds of objection, within 21 days
after the date of the notice served pursuant to paragraph 1(e) of the
First Schedule or such longer period as the Board allows in
exceptional circumstances, whether before or after the end of the
21 days:
(a) a proprietor of any flat in the development who has not
agreed in writing to the sale;
(b) a mortgagee, chargee or other person (other than a lessee)
with an estate or interest in the flat and whose interest is
notified on the land-register for that flat.
[13/2010]
(5A) Where
a
section
84E
stop
order
is
issued
under
subsection (6A)(b) in respect of an application to a Board under
subsection (3) for an order for the sale of all the flats and the land in a
development to which this section applies, and an application is made
to the General Division of the High Court under subsection (3) for an
order for the same sale of all the flats and the land in the same
development, any person referred to in subsection (5)(a) or (b) who
filed an objection to the Board (but no others) may re-file the person’s
objection to the sale, stating the same grounds of objection, to the
General Division of the High Court in the manner and within the time
delimited by the Rules of Court.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(6) Where an application has been made to a Board under
subsection
(3)
and
no
objection
has
been
filed
under
subsection (5), the Board must, subject to subsection (9), approve
the application and order that the flats and the land in the
development be sold.
[13/2010]
(6A) Where an application is made under subsection (3) to a Board,
and one or more objections have been filed under subsection (5) in
relation to that application —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
64
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the Board must mediate matters that are in dispute between
the objectors and the applicants to achieve a resolution of
the dispute; and
(b) if —
(i) at the end of a period of 60 days starting from the first
day set aside for mediation; or
(ii) mediation has proceeded as far as it reasonably can
in an attempt to achieve a resolution of the dispute
but has nevertheless failed to resolve the dispute,
whichever first occurs, one or more of those objections are
not withdrawn, the Board must, subject to subsection (6B),
order a discontinuance of all proceedings before it in
connection with that application (called in this section a
section 84E stop order).
[13/2010]
(6B) A section 84E stop order must not be made by a Board under
subsection (6A)(b) with respect to an application made to it under
subsection (3) unless —
(a) the Board has, by notice served on every objector who filed
an objection under subsection (5) in relation to that
application and the authorised representatives of the
applicants,
informed
the
objector
and
authorised
representatives of its intention to make a section 84E
stop order; and
(b) at the end of a period of 7 days after the notice under
paragraph (a) is so served, one or more of those objections
so filed are not withdrawn.
[13/2010]
(7) Where one or more objections have been filed under
subsection (5A) in respect of an application to the General
Division of the High Court under subsection (3), the General
Division of the High Court must, subject to subsection (9), approve
the application and order that all the flats and the land in the
development be sold unless, having regard to the objections, the
General Division of the High Court is satisfied that —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
65
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) any objector, being a proprietor, will incur a financial loss;
or
(b) the proceeds of sale for any flat to be received by any
objector, being a proprietor, mortgagee or chargee, are
insufficient to redeem any mortgage or charge in respect of
the flat.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7A) An order made under subsection (7) by the General Division
of the High Court may, with the consent of the collective sale
committee, include an order that the proceeds of sale for any flat to be
received by an objector, being a proprietor who has filed an objection
under subsection (5), be increased if the General Division of the High
Court is satisfied that it would be just and equitable to do so.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7B) The total sum ordered by the General Division of the High
Court for all the objectors under subsection (7A) is to be paid from the
proceeds of sale of all the proprietors and must not exceed the
aggregate sum of 0.25% of the proceeds of sale for each flat or $2,000
for each flat, whichever is the higher.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(8) For the purposes of subsection (7)(a), a proprietor —
(a) is taken to have incurred a financial loss if the proceeds of
sale for the proprietor’s flat, after any deduction allowed by
the General Division of the High Court, are less than the
price the proprietor paid for that flat;
(b) is not to be taken to have incurred a financial loss by reason
only that the proprietor’s net gain from the sale of the
proprietor’s flat will be less than the other proprietors.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(9) The General Division of the High Court or a Board must not
approve an application made under subsection (3) —
(a) if the General Division of the High Court or Board (as the
case may be) is satisfied that —
(i) the transaction is not in good faith after taking into
account only the following factors:
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
66
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(A) the sale price for the flats and the land in the
development;
(B) the method of distributing the proceeds of sale;
and
(C) the relationship of the purchaser to any of the
proprietors; or
(ii) the sale and purchase agreement would require any
proprietor who has not agreed in writing to the sale to
be a party to any arrangement for the development of
the flats and the land in the development; or
(b) if the collective sale committee does not consent to any
order made by the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (7A).
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(10) Where no objection has been filed under subsection (5) to a
Board or under subsection (5A) to the General Division of the High
Court, the determination under subsection (9) is to be made by the
General Division of the High Court or the Board on the basis of the
facts available to the General Division of the High Court or Board, as
the case may be.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(11) Where the General Division of the High Court or a Board (as
the case may be) has made an order for the sale of the flats and the
land, the proprietor of the land is deemed to have transferred that
proprietor’s estate and interest in the land to the purchaser without
consideration upon the registration by the Registrar of the transfers of
all the flats (except the flats deemed to be owned by the proprietor
under subsection (14)) in the development and the Registrar must
enter a notification of the vesting of the land in the purchaser on the
land-register.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(12) The proprietors of the flats who have not agreed in writing to
the sale, the proprietor of the land, a mortgagee, chargee or other
person with an estate or interest in land, where applicable, must
produce the title deeds for the flats or the land to the person having
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
67
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
conduct
of
the
sale,
the
representatives
appointed
under
section 84A(2) or to their solicitors.
(13) If the title deeds for the flats or the land are not produced under
subsection (12), the person having conduct of the sale is not required
to produce to the purchaser any title deed other than a certified true
copy of the title deed or a subsidiary certificate of title.
(14) Where the proprietor of the land in a development mentioned
in subsection (1) has granted leases for some but not all the flats in the
development, that proprietor is deemed to be the proprietor of the
flats which are still owned by that proprietor.
(14A) Upon registration by the Registrar of the transfers of all the
flats (except the flats deemed to be owned by the proprietor under
subsection (14)) in the development —
(a) the proprietor of the land is deemed to have transferred that
proprietor’s estate and interest in the flats which are still
owned by that proprietor to the purchaser; and
(b) the Registrar must enter a notification of the vesting of
those flats in the purchaser on the land-register.
(14B) The Registrar may dispense with production of the certificate
of title for the land for the purposes of subsections (11) and (14A).
(15) Sections 84A(1A), (2), (3), (5), (5A), (7C), (8)(a), (b) and (c),
(11), (11A), (12) and (13), 84B and 84C and the Second and
Third Schedules apply, with the necessary modifications, to any
application or order made under this section.
[13/2010; 2/2012]
(15A) In the application of section 84A(1A) and the Second and
Third Schedules to any development to which this section applies,
any reference to a management corporation is to be read as a
reference to the proprietors of the flats.
(16) In this section —
“development” means any parcel of land with one or more
buildings;
“proprietor” includes a successor in title.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
68
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Collective sale by all proprietors of flats who own leasehold
tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure in flats not
registered under this Act but do not own land
84F.—(1) This section applies where there are subsisting leases of
flats registered under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 or the Land
Titles Act 1993 for a leasehold tenure of 850 years or more or for such
other tenure as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify and where the proprietors of the flats do not own the land
comprised in the development.
(2) Where the proprietors of all the flats in a development to which
this section applies agree in writing under a sale and purchase
agreement to sell all their flats to a purchaser (whether in cash or kind
or both), they must serve a notice on the proprietor of the land and
every mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or interest in
the land and whose interest is notified on the land-register at least
21 days before the date of the first transfer of any such flat informing
them of the transfer under subsection (4).
(3) Notice under subsection (2) must be given by —
(a) advertising the proposed sale in such local newspapers in
the 4 official languages as approved by the Registrar;
(b) serving the notice on the proprietor of the land and every
mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or
interest in the land and whose interest is notified on the
land-register by registered post; and
(c) affixing a copy of the notice in the 4 official languages to a
conspicuous part of each building in the development.
(4) The proprietor of the land mentioned in subsection (2) is
deemed to have transferred that proprietor’s estate and interest in the
land to the purchaser without consideration upon the registration by
the Registrar of the transfers of all the flats in the development and the
Registrar must enter a notification of the vesting of the land in the
purchaser on the land-register.
(5) A notice sent by registered post under this section to a proprietor
of the land, that proprietor’s mortgagee, chargee or other person with
an estate or interest in the land and whose interest is notified on the
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
69
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
land-register at its last registered address in the case of a company
registered under the Companies Act 1967 or otherwise at its last
recorded address at the Land Titles Registry or the Registry of Deeds
(as the case may be) is deemed to be duly served on the person to
whom it is addressed 2 days after the day on which the notice was
posted, despite the fact that the letter may be returned by the post
office as undelivered.
(6) When the transfers of the flats to which this section applies are
lodged for registration with the Registrar, the solicitors acting for the
proprietors of the flats must certify in such form as the Registrar may
determine that the provisions of this section have been complied with,
and the certificate in favour of the purchaser and the Registrar is
conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(7) Section 84E(12), (13), (14B) and (16) applies, with the
necessary modifications, to a development to which this section
applies.
Application for collective sale of parcel by majority of
subsidiary proprietors who own registered leasehold tenure of
at least 850 years or other tenure
84FA.—(1) This section applies where there are subsisting leases
registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 of all or some of the lots in
a strata title plan for a leasehold tenure of 850 years or more or for
such other tenure as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify.
(2) An application for an order for the sale of all the lots and
common property in a strata title plan to which this section applies
may be made by —
(a) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots with not less than
90% of the share values and not less than 90% of the total
area of all the lots (excluding the area of any accessory lot)
as shown in the subsidiary strata certificates of title where
less than 10 years have passed since the date of the issue of
the latest temporary occupation permit on completion of
any building (not being any common property) comprised
in the strata title plan or, if no temporary occupation permit
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
70
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
was issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan,
whichever is the later; or
(b) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots with not less than 80%
of the share values and not less than 80% of the total area of
all the lots (excluding the area of any accessory lot) as
shown in the subsidiary strata certificates of title where
10 years or more have passed since the date of the issue of
the latest temporary occupation permit on completion of
any building (not being any common property) comprised
in the strata title plan or, if no temporary occupation permit
was issued, the date of the issue of the latest certificate of
statutory completion for any building (not being any
common property) comprised in the strata title plan,
whichever is the later,
who have agreed in writing to sell all the lots and common property in
the strata title plan to a purchaser under a sale and purchase
agreement which specifies the proposed method of distributing the
sale proceeds to all the subsidiary proprietors (whether in cash or kind
or both), subject to an order being made under subsection (5) or (6).
[13/2010]
(2A) An application under subsection (2) for an order for the sale of
all the lots and common property in a strata title plan to which this
section applies —
(a) must be made to a Board in the first instance; and
(b) may be made to the General Division of the High Court
thereafter if, and only if, a section 84FA stop order is issued
by the Board under subsection (5A)(b) with respect to the
application to that Board in respect of the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(2B) An application to the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (2) for an order for the sale of all the lots and
common property in a development to which this section applies must
be made within 14 days after a section 84FA stop order is issued by a
Board under subsection (5A)(b) in relation to the same sale.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
71
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) The
subsidiary
proprietors
of
the
lots
mentioned
in
subsection (2) must also serve on the subsidiary proprietor in
reversion of the leasehold estate and every mortgagee, chargee or
other person with an estate or interest in land and whose interest is
notified on the subsidiary strata land-register for the lots, a copy of all
notices to be served pursuant to the First Schedule.
(4) In the case of an application to a Board under subsection (2) for
an order for the sale of all the lots and the common property in a strata
title plan to which this section applies, each of the following persons
may file an objection to the sale, stating the grounds of objection,
within 21 days after the date of the notice served pursuant to
paragraph 1(e) of the First Schedule or such longer period as the
Board allows in exceptional circumstances, whether before or after
the end of the 21 days:
(a) a subsidiary proprietor of any lot in the strata title plan who
has not agreed in writing to the sale;
(b) a mortgagee, chargee or other person (other than a lessee)
with an estate or interest in the land and whose interest is
notified on the subsidiary strata land-register for that lot.
[13/2010]
(4A) Where
a
section
84FA
stop
order
is
issued
under
subsection (5A)(b) in respect of an application to a Board under
subsection (2) for an order for the sale of all the lots and the common
property in a strata title plan to which this section applies, and an
application is made to the General Division of the High Court under
subsection (2) for an order for the same sale of all the lots and the
common property in the same strata title plan, any person referred to
in subsection (4)(a) or (b) who filed an objection to the Board (but no
others) may re-file the person’s objection to the sale, stating the same
grounds of objection, to the General Division of the High Court in the
manner and within the time delimited by the Rules of Court.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(5) Where an application has been made to a Board under
subsection
(2)
and
no
objection
has
been
filed
under
subsection (4), the Board must, subject to subsection (9), approve
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
72
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the application and order that the lots and common property in the
strata title plan be sold.
[13/2010]
(5A) Where an application is made under subsection (2) to a Board,
and one or more objections have been filed under subsection (4) in
relation to that application —
(a) the Board must mediate matters that are in dispute between
the objectors and the applicants to achieve a resolution of
the dispute; and
(b) if —
(i) at the end of a period of 60 days starting from the first
day set aside for mediation; or
(ii) mediation has proceeded as far as it reasonably can
in an attempt to achieve resolution of the dispute but
has nevertheless failed to resolve the dispute,
whichever first occurs, one or more of those objections are
not withdrawn, the Board must, subject to subsection (5B),
order a discontinuance of all proceedings before it in
connection with that application (called in this section a
section 84FA stop order).
[13/2010]
(5B) A section 84FA stop order must not be made by a Board under
subsection (5A)(b) with respect to an application made to it under
subsection (2) unless —
(a) the Board has, by notice served on every objector who filed
an objection under subsection (4) in relation to that
application and the authorised representatives of the
applicants,
informed
the
objector
and
authorised
representatives of its intention to make a section 84FA
stop order; and
(b) at the end of a period of 7 days after the notice under
paragraph (a) is so served, one or more of those objections
so filed are not withdrawn.
[13/2010]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
73
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Where one or more objections have been filed under
subsection (4A) in respect of an application to the General
Division of the High Court under subsection (2), the General
Division of the High Court must, subject to subsection (9), approve
the application and order that the lots and common property be sold
unless, having regard to the objections, the General Division of the
High Court is satisfied that —
(a) any objector, being a subsidiary proprietor, will incur a
financial loss; or
(b) the proceeds of sale for any lot to be received by any
objector, being a subsidiary proprietor, mortgagee or
chargee, are insufficient to redeem any mortgage or
charge in respect of the lot.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(7) An order made under subsection (6) by the General Division of
the High Court may, with the consent of the collective sale
committee, include an order that the proceeds of sale for any lot to
be received by an objector, being a subsidiary proprietor who has
filed an objection under subsection (4A), be increased if the General
Division of the High Court is satisfied that it would be just and
equitable to do so.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(8) The total sum ordered by the General Division of the High Court
for all the objectors under subsection (7) is to be paid from the
proceeds of sale of all the subsidiary proprietors and must not exceed
the aggregate sum of 0.25% of the proceeds of sale for each lot or
$2,000 for each lot, whichever is the higher.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(9) The General Division of the High Court or a Board must not
approve an application made under subsection (2) —
(a) if the General Division of the High Court or Board (as the
case may be) is satisfied that —
(i) the transaction is not in good faith after taking into
account only the following factors:
(A) the sale price for the lots and the common
property in the strata title plan;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
74
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(B) the method of distributing the proceeds of sale;
and
(C) the relationship of the purchaser to any of the
subsidiary proprietors; or
(ii) the sale and purchase agreement would require any
subsidiary proprietor who has not agreed in writing
to the sale to be a party to any arrangement for the
development of the lots and the common property in
the strata title plan; or
(b) if the collective sale committee does not consent to any
order made by the General Division of the High Court
under subsection (7).
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(10) Where no objection has been filed under subsection (4) to a
Board or under subsection (4A) to the General Division of the High
Court, the determination under subsection (9) is to be made by the
General Division of the High Court or the Board on the basis of the
facts available to the General Division of the High Court or Board, as
the case may be.
[13/2010; 40/2019]
(11) Where the General Division of the High Court or a Board (as
the case may be) has made an order for the sale of the lots and the
common property in the strata title plan —
(a) the subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold
estate is deemed to have transferred that subsidiary
proprietor’s
estate
and
interest
in
the
lots
to
the
purchaser without consideration upon the registration by
the Registrar of the transfers of all the lots (except the lots
still owned by the subsidiary proprietor in reversion under
subsection (14)) in the strata title plan; and
(b) the Registrar must enter a notification of the vesting of the
reversionary interest in the purchaser on the subsidiary
strata land-register and cancel the registration of any
mortgage, charge or lease notified on the subsidiary strata
land-register.
[13/2010; 2/2012; 40/2019]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
75
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(12) The subsidiary proprietors of the lots who have not agreed in
writing to the sale, the subsidiary proprietor in reversion and any
mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or interest in those
lots, where applicable, must produce the subsidiary strata certificates
of title for the lots to the person having conduct of the sale, the
representatives appointed under section 84A(2) or to their solicitors.
(13) If the subsidiary strata certificates of title for the lots are not
produced under subsection (12), the person having conduct of the sale
is not required to produce to the purchaser any subsidiary strata
certificate of title other than a certified true copy thereof.
(14) Where the subsidiary proprietor in reversion has granted leases
for some but not all the lots in the strata title plan, that subsidiary
proprietor is deemed to have transferred that subsidiary proprietor’s
estate and interest in the lots still owned by that subsidiary proprietor
to the purchaser upon registration by the Registrar of the transfers of
the other lots in the strata title plan and the Registrar must enter a
notification of the vesting of the lots in the purchaser on the
subsidiary strata land-register and cancel the registration of any
mortgage, charge or lease
notified on the subsidiary strata
land-register.
[2/2012]
(15) The Registrar may dispense with production of the subsidiary
strata certificates of title for the lots still owned by the subsidiary
proprietor in reversion for the purposes of subsections (11) and (14).
(16) Sections 84A(1A), (2), (3), (5), (5A), (7C), (8)(a), (b) and (c),
(11), (11A), (12) and (13), 84B and 84C and the Second and Third
Schedules apply, with the necessary modifications, to any application
or order made under this section.
[13/2010; 2/2012]
(17) In this section —
“subsidiary proprietor” includes a successor in title;
“subsidiary proprietor in reversion” means the lessor of the
registered lease under subsection (1) and includes a successor
in title.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
76
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Collective sale by all subsidiary proprietors who own
registered leasehold tenure of at least 850 years or other tenure
84FB.—(1) This section applies where there are subsisting leases
registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 of all or some of the lots in
a strata title plan for a leasehold tenure of 850 years or more or for
such other tenure as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify.
(2) Where the subsidiary proprietors of all the lots in the strata title
plan to which this section applies agree in writing under a sale and
purchase agreement to sell all their lots and common property to a
purchaser (whether in cash or kind or both), they must serve a notice
on the subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold estate and
every mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or interest in
land and whose interest is notified on the land-register at least 21 days
before the date of the first transfer of any such lot informing them of
the transfer under subsection (4).
(3) Notice under subsection (2) must be given by —
(a) advertising the proposed sale in such local newspapers in
the 4 official languages as approved by the Registrar;
(b) serving the notice on the subsidiary proprietor in reversion
of the leasehold estate and every mortgagee, chargee or
other person with an estate or interest in land and whose
interest is notified on the land-register by registered post;
and
(c) affixing a copy of the notice in the 4 official languages to a
conspicuous part of each building in the development.
(4) The subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold estate
mentioned in subsection (2) is deemed to have transferred that
subsidiary proprietor’s estate and interest in the lots to the purchaser
without consideration upon the registration by the Registrar of the
transfers of all the lots in the strata title plan and the Registrar must
enter a notification of the vesting of the land in the purchaser on the
land-register.
(5) A notice sent by registered post under this section to the
subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold estate, that
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
77
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
subsidiary proprietor’s mortgagee, chargee or other person with an
estate or interest in land and whose interest is notified on the
land-register at its last registered address in the case of a company
registered under the Companies Act 1967 or otherwise at its last
recorded address at the Land Titles Registry is deemed to be duly
served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days after the day on
which the notice was posted, despite the fact that the letter may be
returned by the post office as undelivered.
(6) When the transfers of the lots to which this section applies are
lodged for registration with the Registrar, the solicitors acting for the
subsidiary proprietors of the lots must certify in such form as the
Registrar may determine that the provisions of this section have been
complied with, and the certificate in favour of the purchaser and the
Registrar is conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(7) Section 84FA(12), (13), (15) and (17) applies, with the
necessary modifications, to all the lots in a strata title plan to
which this section applies.
Application of Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004
84G. Part 6 of the Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004 and any regulations made under that Act apply in respect of
applications under this Part with the necessary modifications.
85. to 114. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
PART 7
GENERAL
Other rights and remedies not affected by this Act
115. Nothing in this Act affects or takes away any rights or
remedies that a subsidiary proprietor or mortgagee of a lot or a
management corporation may have in relation to any lot or the
common property apart from this Act.
116. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
117. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
78
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
118. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
Service of documents on management corporation, subsidiary
proprietors and others
119.—(1) A summons or other legal process may be served on a
management corporation by leaving it with the chairperson or
secretary of the management corporation or of the council or with any
member of the council.
(2) A document other than a document referred to in subsection (1)
may be served on a management corporation —
(a) by leaving it with any person referred to in subsection (1)
or in the receptacle provided by the management
corporation
under
section
28
of
the
Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004; or
(b) by sending it, by registered post, to the management
corporation at its address recorded on the folio of the
land-register comprising the common property.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a notice or other document
required or authorised by this Act or the by-laws to be served by a
management corporation, a council or the secretary of a council on a
proprietor, subsidiary proprietor, lessee, mortgagee or occupier of a
lot may be served —
(a) by leaving it —
(i) where the person to be served is an occupier of the
lot — at the address of the lot; or
(ii) where an address for the service of notices on the
person to be served is recorded in the strata roll — at
the address so recorded;
(b) by sending it, by registered post, to the person to be served,
where an address for the service of notices on that person is
recorded in the strata roll, at the address so recorded and, if
that notice or document is not returned through the post
office as undelivered, that service is deemed to have been
made at the time at which the registered letter would in the
ordinary course be delivered; or
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
79
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) in the case of a subsidiary proprietor, by affixing the notice
on the front door of the subsidiary proprietor’s lot.
(4) Section 60A of the Land Titles Act 1993 applies to the service of
documents on a management corporation and a subsidiary proprietor.
(5) This section does not apply to notices served in proceedings in
the court.
120. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2004]
Legal proceedings
121.—(1) Every application to the court under this Act must be by
originating application.
[Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2021]
(2) Where this Act provides for any sum to be recovered by any
person or authority from any other person or authority, the sum may
be recovered by an action for a debt in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
PART 8
ISSUE OF SUBSIDIARY CERTIFICATES OF TITLE
FOR FLATS UNDER OTHER SCHEMES AND
ISSUE OF SUBSIDIARY STRATA
CERTIFICATES OF TITLE
Issue of subsidiary certificate of title to registered lessee
122.—(1) A registered lessee may by an application in the
approved form apply to the Registrar for the issue of a subsidiary
certificate of title in respect of the registered leasehold estate to the
registered lessee’s flat.
(2) The registered lessee must at the time of making the application
surrender the registered lessee’s duplicate lease to the Registrar.
(3) Upon the issue of a subsidiary certificate of title, the Registrar
must enter a memorial in the volume and folio of the land-register of
the registered land on or over which the flat is erected to the effect that
a subsidiary certificate of title has been issued to the registered lessee
for the registered leasehold estate.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
80
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) The subsidiary certificate of title must be in the approved form
and upon its issue any assurance or other dealing affecting the
leasehold estate comprised therein is subject to the Land Titles Act
1993.
Flats sold by Housing and Development Board
123.—(1) The restriction imposed by section 6(1) on an assurance
disposing of any part of a subdivided building does not apply to any
assurance disposing of any interest in any flat in a subdivided
building erected on registered land where the interest in the flat is
held under a lease from the Housing and Development Board
constituted under the Housing and Development Act 1959.
(2) Where a strata title application for a parcel is lodged by the
Housing and Development Board with and duly registered by the
Registrar, the provisions of this Act relating to a strata title plan and a
subsidiary proprietor and section 10A and Part 5 and this Part and the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004 apply to
each and every subdivided building comprised in the registered strata
title plan for that parcel.
Flats sold by Jurong Town Corporation
124.—(1) The restriction imposed by section 6(1) on an assurance
disposing of any part of a subdivided building does not apply to any
assurance disposing of any interest in any flat in any subdivided
building erected on registered land where the interest in the flat is
held under a lease from the Jurong Town Corporation constituted
under the Jurong Town Corporation Act 1968.
(2) Where a strata title application for a parcel is lodged by the
Jurong Town Corporation with and duly registered by the Registrar,
the provisions of this Act relating to a strata title plan and a subsidiary
proprietor and section 10A and Part 5 and this Part and the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004 apply to each and
every subdivided building comprised in the registered strata title plan
for that parcel.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
81
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with registered
leases under Registration of Deeds Act 1988
125.—(1) Where there are 3 or more flats in a building and
subsisting leases for those flats have been registered under the
Registration of Deeds Act 1988, the proprietor of the land together
with the proprietors of those flats who altogether own not less than
25% of the total number of flats in the building may lodge with the
Registrar a strata title application in the approved form —
(a) to have the land brought under the Land Titles Act 1993;
and
(b) for the issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title for all
those flats.
(2) A strata title application submitted to the Registrar under
subsection (1) —
(a) must be accompanied by a transfer of the proprietor’s
estate and interest in the land to the proprietors of all the
flats in that building as tenants-in-common in the shares
according to the ratio of one share to each flat, except that
where the flats are of different sizes, the share in the land
allotted to the proprietor of each flat has the value
determined by the Registrar based on the methods used
by the Commissioner for the allocation of share values
under the Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004; and
(b) must not be registered unless the strata title plan has been
lodged with and approved by the Chief Surveyor under the
Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998.
(3) The Registrar may, upon acceptance of the application, dispense
with the production of the leases of the flats.
(4) Before issuing subsidiary strata certificates of title in favour of
the proprietors of the flats as shown in the records of the Registry of
Deeds, the Registrar must —
(a) require a notice in the form approved by him or her to be
inserted once in one or more daily newspapers to the effect
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
82
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
that
the
Registrar
will
issue
the
subsidiary
strata
certificates of title under this section to the proprietors of
the flats as shown in the records maintained at the Registry
of Deeds after the expiration of 6 weeks from the date of
publication of the notice if no valid objection is received by
the Land Titles Registry; and
(b) send by registered post a copy of the notice mentioned in
paragraph (a) to the proprietors of all the flats at the
addresses
shown
in
the
transfer
mentioned
in
subsection (2).
(5) Despite subsections (1) to (4), the Registrar may, in order to
relieve any case of extreme hardship, in his or her discretion, issue
any subsidiary strata certificate of title in favour of a purchaser of a
flat whose assignment of the leasehold estate of the flat has been duly
stamped and lodged with the Registrar of Deeds, notwithstanding that
the name of the purchaser was not shown in the transfer lodged under
subsection (2).
(6) Where the proprietors of the flats who altogether own not less
than 25% of the total number of the flats as shown in the records of
the Registry of Deeds as at the date of transfer mentioned in
subsection (2) have agreed in writing to accept the transfer of the
estate and interest of the proprietor of the land, all the proprietors of
the flats within the same development and all the respective
successors in title or assigns are deemed to have accepted the
transfer of the proprietor’s estate and interest in the land and to have
given consent to the application for the issue of the subsidiary strata
certificates of title by the Registrar and the acceptance of the transfer
of the proprietor’s estate and interest in the land.
(7) The proprietor of the land must deposit with the Registrar the
title deeds in that proprietor’s possession relating to the land and the
Registrar may, after inspection of the title deeds, create a folio of the
land-register by issuing a certificate of title for the land on which the
flats are erected.
(8) Where the Registrar is satisfied with the evidence of title and
that all the necessary documents are in order, the Registrar may issue
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
83
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
subsidiary strata certificates of title for the flats after the publication
of the notice mentioned in subsection (4).
(9) The Registrar may, under subsections (7) and (8), issue the
certificate of title and the subsidiary strata certificates of title
qualified as to their title or their boundaries and dimensions, and
sections 25 and 165 of the Land Titles Act 1993 apply, with the
necessary modifications, to such certificate of title and subsidiary
strata certificates of title.
(10) Upon the registration of the strata title application, the
management corporation of the parcel of land must reimburse the
person or persons who incurred any expenditure for the purpose of —
(a) bringing the land under the Land Titles Act 1993;
(b) applying for the issue of subsidiary strata certificates of
title for all those flats comprised in a building or buildings
erected on the parcel;
(c) lodging the transfer under subsection (2);
(d) the preparation of the strata title plan for the parcel;
(e) the
publication
of
the
notices
mentioned
in
subsection (4)(a); and
(f) issuing notices to the proprietors of the flats under
subsection (4)(b).
(11) It is the duty of the management corporation to determine the
amount of contributions payable by the subsidiary proprietors of the
lots in the subdivided building concerned to its management fund to
meet the expenditure mentioned in subsection (10) and any
contributions so levied by the management corporation are deemed
to be contributions levied under section 39(3) of the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
(12) For the purposes of this section, where the registered
proprietor of the land on which the building is erected has granted
leases for some but not all of the flats in the building, that registered
proprietor is deemed a proprietor of the flats which are still owned by
that registered proprietor.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
84
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats where proprietors
own leasehold estate of at least 999 years or other estate
125A.—(1) Where the subsisting leases of the flats registered under
the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 or the Land Titles Act 1993 are
for a leasehold estate of 999 years or more or for such other estate as
the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, specify and where
the proprietors of those flats who altogether own not less than 25% of
the total number of flats in the development have agreed to have the
land brought under the Land Titles Act 1993 and for the issue of
subsidiary strata certificates of title for all the flats, the proprietor of
the land is deemed to have agreed to the transfer of the land without
consideration to the proprietors of the flats in the shares as specified
in section 125(2)(a) or 126(1) or (2), as the case may be.
(2) The proprietors of the flats mentioned in subsection (1) must
serve a notice on the proprietor of the land and the subsisting
mortgagees, chargees or other persons with an estate or interest in
land who appear as such in the records of the Land Titles Registry or
the Registry of Deeds (as the case may be) at least one month before
the date of the strata title application is filed with the Registrar,
informing them of the transfer under subsection (1).
(3) Section 125 or 126 (as the case may be), except the provisions
relating to the transfer of the land by the registered proprietors,
continues to apply to the proprietors of the flats mentioned in
subsection (1).
(4) Upon registration of the strata title application for the
development and the issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title
for the flats in the development, the estate and interest of the
registered proprietor in the land vests in the subsidiary proprietors.
Issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with
subsisting leases registered under Land Titles Act 1993
126.—(1) Where there are subsisting leases of flats registered under
the Land Titles Act 1993, the registered proprietors of the flats who
altogether own not less than 25% of the total number of flats
comprised in the development together with the registered proprietor
of the land on which the said development is erected may lodge with
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
85
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the Registrar a transfer of the estate and interest of the registered
proprietor of the land to all the registered proprietors of the flats as
tenants-in-common in the shares according to the ratio of one share to
each flat together with a strata title application in the approved form.
(2) Where the flats in the development are of different sizes, the
shares in the land to be allotted to the registered proprietor of each flat
are the values determined by the Registrar based on the methods used
by the Commissioner for the allocation of share values under the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
(3) A strata title application submitted under subsection (1) must
not be registered unless the strata title plan has been lodged with and
approved by the Chief Surveyor under the Boundaries and Survey
Maps Act 1998.
(4) The Registrar may, upon being satisfied that the transfer and the
strata title application are in order —
(a) register all the registered proprietors of the flats as the
proprietors of the registered land as tenants-in-common;
(b) issue the subsidiary strata certificates of title according to
the strata title application; and
(c) dispense with the production of the duplicate leases of the
flats.
(5) Where the registered proprietors of the flats who altogether own
not less than 25% of the total number of flats comprised in the
development have agreed in writing to accept the transfer of all the
estate and interest of the registered proprietor in the land on which the
development is erected, all the remaining registered proprietors of the
flats in the same development are deemed to have accepted the
transfer and deemed to have applied for the issue of subsidiary strata
certificates of title for the flats.
(6) Before issuing subsidiary strata certificates of title in favour of
the registered proprietors of the flats as shown in the records of the
Land Titles Registry, the Registrar must —
(a) require a notice in the form approved by him or her to be
inserted once in one or more daily newspapers to the effect
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
86
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
that
the
Registrar
will
issue
the
subsidiary
strata
certificates of title under this section to the registered
proprietors of the flats as shown in the records maintained
at the Land Titles Registry after the expiration of 6 weeks
from the date of publication of the notice if no valid
objection is received by the Registrar; and
(b) send by registered post a copy of the notice mentioned in
paragraph (a) to the registered proprietors of all the flats at
the addresses shown in the records of the Land Titles
Registry or in the transfer lodged under subsection (1)
where the addresses differ from that shown in the records
of the Land Titles Registry.
(7) Despite subsections (1), (2) and (3), the Registrar may, in order
to relieve any case of extreme hardship, issue any subsidiary strata
certificate of title in favour of a purchaser of a flat whose transfer of
the leasehold estate of the flats has been duly stamped and lodged
with him or her, notwithstanding that the name of the purchaser was
not shown in the transfer lodged under subsection (1).
(8) The Registrar may, under subsection (4), issue the subsidiary
strata certificates of title qualified as to their title or their boundaries
and dimensions, and sections 25 and 165 of the Land Titles Act 1993
apply, with the necessary modifications, to such subsidiary strata
certificates of title.
(9) Upon the registration of the strata title application, the
management corporation of the parcel of land must reimburse the
person or persons who incurred any expenditure for the purpose of —
(a) applying for the issue of subsidiary strata certificates of
title for all those flats comprised in the development
erected on the parcel;
(b) lodging the transfer under subsection (1);
(c) the preparation of the strata title plan for the parcel;
(d) the
publication
of
the
notices
mentioned
in
subsection (6)(a); and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
87
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(e) issuing notices to the proprietors of the flats under
subsection (6)(b).
(10) It is the duty of the management corporation to determine the
amount of contributions payable by the subsidiary proprietors of the
lots in the subdivided building concerned to its management fund to
meet the expenditure mentioned in subsection (9) and any
contributions so levied by the management corporation are deemed
to be contributions levied under section 39(3) of the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
(11) For the purposes of this section, where the registered
proprietor of the land on which the development is erected has
granted leases for some of but not all the flats in the development, that
registered proprietor is deemed the registered proprietor of the flats
which are still owned by that registered proprietor.
126A. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]
126B. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]
Issue of subsidiary strata certificates of title for flats with
subsisting leases registered under Registration of Deeds Act
1988 where land is vested in flat owners as tenants-in-common
127.—(1) Where there are subsisting leases of flats registered under
the provisions of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 and the
registered estate or interest in the land on which the flats are erected is
vested, subject to the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993, in the
lessees of the flats as tenants-in-common in the shares shown in the
land-register, the registered lessees of those flats who altogether own
not less than 25% of the total number of those flats may lodge with
the Registrar a strata title application in the approved form.
(2) A strata title application submitted under subsection (1) must
not be registered unless the strata title plan has been lodged with and
approved by the Chief Surveyor under the Boundaries and Survey
Maps Act 1998.
(3) The Registrar may, upon acceptance of the application, dispense
with the production of the leases of the flats.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
88
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Before issuing subsidiary strata certificates of title in favour of
the registered lessees of the flats as shown in the records of the
Registry of Deeds or the Land Titles Registry, the Registrar must —
(a) require a notice in the form approved by him or her to be
inserted once in one or more daily newspapers to the effect
that
the
Registrar
will
issue
the
subsidiary
strata
certificates of title under this section to the registered
lessees of the flats as shown in the records maintained at
the Registry of Deeds or the Land Titles Registry after the
expiration of 6 weeks from the date of publication of the
notice if no valid objection is received by the Land Titles
Registry; and
(b) send by registered post a copy of the notice mentioned in
paragraph (a) to the registered lessees of all the flats at the
addresses shown in the records of the Registry of Deeds or
the Land Titles Registry.
(5) Where the Registrar is satisfied that all the necessary documents
are in order, the Registrar may issue subsidiary strata certificates of
title for the flats after the publication of the notice mentioned in
subsection (4).
(6) Any subsidiary strata certificate of title issued by the Registrar
under subsection (5) may be qualified as to its title or its boundaries
and dimensions, and sections 25 and 165 of the Land Titles Act 1993
apply, with the necessary modifications, to such subsidiary strata
certificate of title.
(7) Upon the registration of the strata title application, the
management corporation of the parcel of land must reimburse the
person or persons who incurred any expenditure for the purpose of —
(a) applying for the issue of subsidiary strata certificates of
title for all those flats comprised in a building or buildings
erected on the parcel;
(b) the preparation of the strata title plan for the parcel;
(c) the
publication
of
the
notices
mentioned
in
subsection (4)(a); and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
89
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(d) issuing notices to the registered lessees of the flats under
subsection (4)(b).
(8) It is the duty of the management corporation to determine the
amount of contributions payable by the subsidiary proprietors of the
lots in the subdivided building concerned to its management fund to
meet the expenditure mentioned in subsection (7) and any
contributions so levied by the management corporation are deemed
to be contributions levied under section 39(3) of the Building
Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
Effect of issue of qualified certificate of title and of subsidiary
strata certificates of title
128.—(1) Upon the issue of a qualified certificate of title for the
land under section 125, the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993
relating to a qualified certificate of title apply to the land comprised
therein.
(2) Upon the issue of the subsidiary strata certificates of title for the
flats under section 125, 125A, 126 or 127 or the repealed
section 126A, all the provisions of the leases of the flats registered
under the provisions of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 and the
Land Titles Act 1993 cease to apply to the flats except in respect of
any terms, covenants and conditions which were subsisting prior to
the date of the issue of the subsidiary strata certificates of title insofar
as they relate to any obligations which have yet to be fulfilled or any
cause of action which had arisen as between the registered proprietors
of the flats themselves and as between the registered proprietors of
the flats and the registered proprietors of the land on which the flats
are erected.
[4/2021]
129. [Repealed by Act 38 of 2002]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
90
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 9
MISCELLANEOUS
Regulations
130.—(1) Subject to section 131, the Authority, with the approval
of the Minister, may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act
for giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority, with the
approval of the Minister, may make regulations with respect to —
(a) the fees to be paid in respect of lodgment and registration
of plans and documents under this Act;
(b) any matter which by this Act is required or permitted to be
prescribed or is necessary or convenient to be prescribed
for carrying out or giving effect to any provision of this
Act.
Regulations made by, and fees to be paid to, Authority
131.—(1) The Authority may make regulations on any of the
following matters:
(a) the preparation of plans and documents for the purposes of
this Act;
(b) the lodgment and registration of plans under this Act.
(2) All prescribed fees collected under or in connection with any
service provided by the Registrar under this Act must be paid into the
funds of the Authority.
FIRST SCHEDULE
Sections 84A(3), (4), (7C), (13) and
(14), 84D(3), 84E(4) and (5) and
84FA(3) and (4)
REQUIREMENTS UNDER SECTION 84A, 84D, 84E OR 84FA
1. Before making an application to a Board, the subsidiary proprietors
mentioned in section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) or the proprietors of flats mentioned
in section 84D(2) or 84E(3) (as the case may be) must —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
91
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
(a) execute within the permitted time but in no case more than 12 months
before the date the application is made, a collective sale agreement in
writing among themselves (whether or not with other subsidiary
proprietors or proprietors) agreeing to agree to collectively sell —
(i) in the case of an application under section 84A or 84FA — all
the lots and common property in a strata title plan; or
(ii) in the case of an application under section 84D or 84E — all the
flats and the land in a development to which section 84D or
84E (as the case may be) applies;
(b) affix to a conspicuous part of each building comprised in the strata title
plan or the development to which section 84D or 84E applies (as the
case may be) a notice in the 4 official languages specifying —
(i) the number of lots and number of subsidiary proprietors or the
number of flats and number of proprietors (as the case may be)
who, immediately before the date of the notice, have signed the
collective sale agreement; and
(ii) the proportion (in percentage) that the total share value and the
total area of the lots as shown in the subsidiary strata
certificates of title of such subsidiary proprietors’ lots bear to
the total share value and total area of all lots comprised in that
strata title plan, or the total share or total notional share of the
land and total area of the flats of such proprietors bear to the
total share or notional share of all proprietors and total area of
all the flats in that land and the development concerned, as the
case may be,
within 4 weeks after the start of the permitted time and thereafter at
intervals of not more than 4 weeks from the date of the last notice
under this sub-paragraph;
(c) ensure that the notice in sub-paragraph (b) does not include any
subsidiary proprietor who has served or is entitled to serve a notice of
rescission
under
paragraph
6
and
that
the
notice
in
that
sub-paragraph is certified by the advocate and solicitor appointed by
the collective sale committee or in accordance with paragraph 7(1)(a)
in the Third Schedule, whichever is applicable, to be accurate;
(d) advertise in the 4 official languages the particulars of the proposed
application in such local newspapers as approved by the Board;
(e) serve notice of the proposed application on all the subsidiary
proprietors of all the lots and common property in the strata title
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
92
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
plan concerned and (if applicable) on the subsidiary proprietors in
reversion of the leasehold estate in the lots, or on all the proprietors of
all flats in the development concerned (as the case may be) by letter by
registered post notifying every one of them of the proposed application
accompanied by a copy each of the following documents, and stating
that copies of the documents may also be obtained from the marketing
agent or the collective sale committee:
(i) the collective sale agreement mentioned in sub-paragraph (a);
(ii) the sale and purchase agreement which is to be the subject of
the application to the Board;
(iii) a statutory declaration made by the purchaser under the sale
and purchase agreement on the nature of the purchaser’s
relationship (if any) or, if the purchaser is a body corporate, the
nature of the relationship of every one of its directors (if any),
to any subsidiary proprietor of any lot comprised in that strata
title plan or any proprietor of any flat in the development, as the
case may be;
(iv) the advertisement mentioned in sub-paragraph (d);
(v) a valuation report from an independent valuer on the value of
the development as at the date of the close of the public tender
or auction; and
(vi) a report by an independent valuer on the proposed method of
distributing the proceeds of the sale due under the sale and
purchase agreement;
(f) give further notice of the proposed application by post addressed to
each lot in the strata title plan concerned or each flat in the
development concerned (as the case may be) or by placing a copy
of the notice in the respective mail boxes for each such lot or flat; and
(g) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(h) affix a copy of the notice mentioned in sub-paragraph (e), without the
enclosed documents, in the 4 official languages to a conspicuous part
of each building comprised in the strata title plan or the development,
as the case may be.
2.—(1) For the purposes of this Schedule —
(a) the permitted time in relation to a collective sale agreement executed or
to be executed by subsidiary proprietors or proprietors mentioned in
section 84A(1), 84D(2), 84E(3) or 84FA(2), means a period —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
93
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
(i) starting from the date the first subsidiary proprietor or
proprietor, or that subsidiary proprietor’s or proprietor’s duly
appointed attorney, as the case may be, signs the collective sale
agreement; and
(ii) ending not more than 12 months after the date the first
subsidiary
proprietor
or
proprietor,
or
that
subsidiary
proprietor’s or proprietor’s duly appointed attorney, as the
case may be, signs the collective sale agreement; and
(b) the collective sale agreement is regarded as executed notwithstanding
that it is executed on separate copies thereof and at different times.
(2) To avoid doubt, it is declared that any reference in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to
the first subsidiary proprietor or proprietor who signs the collective sale agreement
does not include a reference to a subsidiary proprietor who rescinds the subsidiary
proprietor’s agreement to be party thereto in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7.
3. The collective sale committee must provide a preface to the collective sale
agreement stating the clause numbers and page numbers in which the following
information are found:
(a) the reserve price for the development;
(b) the apportionment method for the proceeds of sale;
(c) the fees payable to the advocate and solicitor, marketing agent and
other person involved in handling the collective sale;
(d) the amount of the compensation fund, if any;
(e) the person entitled to any interest derived from moneys held by any
stakeholder; and
(f) the date of delivery of vacant possession of the lot or flat.
4. The collective sale agreement must be signed by the subsidiary proprietor,
and, if signed in Singapore, in the presence of an advocate and solicitor who has a
valid practising certificate appointed by the collective sale committee or in
accordance with paragraph 7(1)(a) in the Third Schedule, whichever is applicable.
5. The collective sale agreement must be accompanied by a notice, in the
prescribed form, that may be used by the subsidiary proprietor to rescind the
subsidiary proprietor’s agreement to be a party to the collective sale agreement.
6.—(1) A subsidiary proprietor may rescind the subsidiary proprietor’s
agreement to be a party to the collective sale agreement by serving a notice of
rescission referred to in paragraph 5 within the cooling-off period which is a
period of 5 days (excluding any day which is a Saturday, Sunday or public
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
94
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
holiday) after the day on which the collective sale agreement was signed by the
subsidiary proprietor.
(2) To avoid doubt, it is declared that —
(a) a subsidiary proprietor or proprietor who signs a collective sale
agreement remains entitled to rescind the subsidiary proprietor’s or
proprietor’s agreement to be a party thereto in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) even after the permitted time (as defined by
paragraph 2) for the collective sale agreement has expired; and
(b) any such subsidiary proprietor or proprietor who so rescinds the
subsidiary proprietor’s or proprietor’s agreement to be a party to a
collective sale agreement after the permitted time for the collective
sale agreement has expired is, for the purposes of paragraph 1, not to be
regarded as having executed the collective sale agreement within the
permitted time.
7. The notice of rescission must be signed by the subsidiary proprietor and must
be served personally on the advocate and solicitor appointed by the collective sale
committee or in accordance with paragraph 7(1)(a) in the Third Schedule,
whichever is applicable, before 5 p.m. on the last day of the cooling-off period.
8. A subsidiary proprietor is not entitled to serve a notice of rescission more than
once for the same collective sale agreement.
9. The advertisement referred to in paragraph 1(d) must include —
(a) information on the development;
(b) brief details of the sale proposal; and
(c) the place at which the affected parties can inspect documents for the
collective sale.
10. The notice mentioned in paragraph 1(e) to be served by registered post must
be served on the affected parties —
(a) where the party is a subsidiary proprietor of a lot in the strata title
plan — at the address as shown on the strata roll;
(b) where the party is a proprietor of a flat or land — at the last recorded
address at the Land Titles Registry or Registry of Deeds;
(c) where the party is a mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate
and interest in the lot or flat whose interest is notified on the
land-register or a subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold
estate in a lot, that subsidiary proprietor’s mortgagee, chargee or other
person with an estate or interest in the lot and whose interest is notified
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
95
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
on the subsidiary strata land-register — at the address on the strata roll
or last recorded address at the Land Titles Registry or Registry of
Deeds (as the case may be) provided that where such mortgagee,
chargee, subsidiary proprietor in reversion or other person has an estate
or interest in more than one lot or flat whose interest is notified on the
land-register or subsidiary strata land-register, a single notice referring
to the affected lots or flats and their respective subsidiary proprietors or
proprietors suffices; and
(d) where the party is a management corporation — at its address recorded
on the folio of the land-register comprising the common property.
11. An application to a Board must be made by the subsidiary proprietors
mentioned in section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) or the proprietors mentioned in
section
84D(2)
or
84E(3)
within
14
days
of
the
publication
of
the
advertisement referred to in paragraph 1(d), enclosing —
(a) the documents specified in paragraph 1(e);
(b) a statutory declaration made by the representatives appointed under
section 84A(2) or their solicitors stating —
(i) the date the permitted time for the collective sale agreement
started;
(ii) the date on which the collective sale agreement mentioned in
paragraph 1(a) was last executed by any subsidiary proprietor
or proprietor mentioned in section 84A(1), 84D(2), 84E(3) or
84FA(2), as the case may be;
(iii) the date or dates on which the notice or notices mentioned in
paragraph 1(b) were affixed; and
(iv) that sub-paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (h) of paragraph 1 have
been complied with;
(c) a list of the names of the subsidiary proprietors or proprietors who have
not agreed in writing to the sale, their mortgagees, chargees, the
subsidiary proprietors in reversion of the leasehold estate in the lots
and other persons (other than lessees) with an estate or interest in the
lots or flats whose interests are notified on the land-register or
subsidiary strata land-register; and
(d) such other document as the Board may require.
12. The Board must, within 5 days of the filing of an objection, serve a copy of it
by registered post on the representatives appointed under section 84A(2) and their
solicitors, if any.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
96
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
13. The subsidiary proprietors mentioned in section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) or the
proprietors mentioned in section 84D(2) or 84E(3) must, after making an
application to the Board, cause a notification of the application being made to be
registered under this Act, the Land Titles Act 1993 or the Registration of Deeds
Act 1988, as the case may be.
14. The subsidiary proprietors or proprietors mentioned in paragraph 13 must —
(a) if an order for sale is granted by the General Division of the High Court
or a Board (as the case may be) under section 84A, 84D, 84E or
84FA — register the order of the General Division of the High Court or
Board in accordance with this Act, the Land Titles Act 1993 or the
Registration of Deeds Act 1988, as the case may be;
(b) if the order for sale is not granted by a Board and no application is
made to the General Division of the High Court within the time
delimited by section 84A(2B), 84D(2B), 84E(3B) or 84FA(2B) —
apply to cancel the notification registered under paragraph 13; or
(c) if the order for sale is not granted by the General Division of the High
Court
—
apply
to
cancel
the
notification
registered
under
paragraph 13.
15. In this Schedule, “affected parties” means —
(a) the subsidiary proprietors mentioned in section 84A(1) or 84FA(2) or
the proprietors mentioned in section 84D(2) or 84E(3);
(b) the subsidiary proprietors of the lots or the proprietors of the flats who
have not agreed in writing to the sale, and any mortgagee, chargee and
other person (other than a lessee) with an estate or interest in the lot or
flat whose interest is notified on the land-register;
(c) the proprietor of the land under section 84E, that proprietor’s
mortgagee, chargee or other person with an estate or interest in the
land whose interest is notified on the land-register;
(d) the subsidiary proprietor in reversion of the leasehold estate in the lots
under section 84FA, that subsidiary proprietor’s mortgagee, chargee or
other person with an estate or interest in the lots and whose interest is
notified on the subsidiary strata land-register; and
(e) the management corporation, where applicable.
[13/2010; 40/2019; S 365/2010; S 111/2011]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
97
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE
Sections 84A(1A)(a), (3), (7C) and
(14), 84D(9) and (9A), 84E(15) and
(15A) and 84FA(16) and
paragraphs 1(1), 7(1), 9(1)(b) and (1A)
and 12(1)(a) of Third Schedule
GENERAL MEETINGS FOR PURPOSES OF COLLECTIVE SALE
Definitions
1.—(1) In this Schedule —
“electronic means” means electronic communication, video conferencing,
tele-conferencing or other electronic means;
“virtual meeting technology” means any technology that allows a person to
participate in a meeting without being physically present at the place of
meeting.
(2) In this Schedule, where a general meeting convened by a management
corporation for the purposes of a collective sale is held (whether wholly or partly)
using virtual meeting technology, a person who attends the meeting using virtual
meeting technology is to be treated as being present if the person —
(a) is able to participate in the proceedings of the meeting using the virtual
meeting technology provided to the person;
(b) is verified as attending the meeting in the manner specified in
sub-paragraph (a) by —
(i) in the case of a general meeting of a management corporation
— the secretary of the council of the management corporation
or a person appointed by the council to verify the quorum; or
(ii) in the case of a general meeting of the proprietors of flats in a
development to which section 84D or 84E applies — a person
appointed by the proprietors of the flats to verify the quorum;
and
(c) is acknowledged by electronic means by the chairperson of the
meeting as attending the meeting.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Application of Schedule
1A. This Schedule applies only to any general meeting convened by a
management corporation for the purposes of a collective sale.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
98
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Convening of general meeting on requisition
2.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (1A), the council of a management corporation
must, on receipt by the secretary thereof of a requisition for a general meeting
signed by —
(a) one or more persons entitled to vote in respect of one or more lots, the
share value or the total share value of which is at least 20% of the
aggregate share value of all the lots whose subsidiary proprietors
comprise the management corporation; or
(b) not less than 25% of the total number of subsidiary proprietors of the
lots
whose
subsidiary
proprietors
comprise
the
management
corporation,
immediately proceed to convene a general meeting of the management
corporation to be held as soon as practicable but in any case not later than
6 weeks after the receipt by the secretary of the requisition.
(1A) If a relevant event happens, the council of the management corporation
must not, on receipt by the secretary thereof of another requisition for a general
meeting, proceed to convene another general meeting of the management
corporation for the purposes of constituting a collective sale committee unless —
(a) 2 or more years have elapsed since the happening of the relevant event;
or
(b) the requisition is signed —
(i) in the case of the first requisition after the happening of the
relevant event — by at least 50% of the total number of
subsidiary proprietors of lots that comprise the management
corporation or by one or more persons entitled to vote in
respect of one or more lots, the share value or the total share
value of which is at least 50% of the aggregate value of all the
lots whose subsidiary proprietors comprise the management
corporation; and
(ii) in the case of the second or subsequent requisition after the
happening of the relevant event — by at least 80% of the total
number of subsidiary proprietors of lots that comprise the
management corporation or by one or more persons entitled to
vote in respect of one or more lots, the share value or the total
share value of which is at least 80% of the aggregate value of
all the lots whose subsidiary proprietors comprise the
management corporation.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
99
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(2) Subject to sub-paragraph (2A), in the case of land in a development to which
section 84D applies, any general meeting must be convened by —
(a) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than 20% share of the
land; or
(b) not less than 25% of the total number of proprietors of the flats.
(2A) If a relevant event happens, the proprietors of flats in a development to
which section 84D applies must not proceed to convene another general meeting
for the purposes of constituting a collective sale committee unless —
(a) 2 or more years have elapsed since the happening of the relevant event;
or
(b) the requisition for the meeting is made —
(i) in the case of the first requisition after the happening of the
relevant event — by proprietors of flats in the development
who own not less than 50% share of the land or by not less than
50% of the total number of proprietors of such flats; and
(ii) in the case of the second or subsequent requisition after the
happening of the relevant event — by proprietors of flats in the
development who own not less than 80% share of the land or by
not less than 80% of the total number of proprietors of such
flats.
(3) Subject to sub-paragraph (3A), in the case of land in a development to which
section 84E applies, any general meeting must be convened by —
(a) the proprietors of the flats who own not less than 20% notional share of
the land; or
(b) not less than 25% of the total number of proprietors of the flats.
(3A) If a relevant event happens, the proprietors of flats in a development to
which section 84E applies must not proceed to convene another general meeting
for the purposes of constituting a collective sale committee unless —
(a) 2 or more years have elapsed since the happening of the relevant event;
or
(b) the requisition for the meeting is made —
(i) in the case of the first requisition after the happening of the
relevant event — by proprietors of flats in that development
who own not less than 50% notional share of the land or by not
less than 50% of the total number of proprietors of such flats;
and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
100
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(ii) in the case of the second or subsequent requisition after the
happening of the relevant event — by proprietors of flats in that
development who own not less than 80% notional share of the
land or by not less than 80% of the total number of proprietors
of such flats.
(4) The requisition must state the objects of the meeting and must be signed by
the requisitionists and deposited at the registered address of the management
corporation, and may consist of several documents in like form each signed by one
or more requisitionists.
(5) If the council does not within 14 days after the date of the deposit of the
requisition made by requisitionists referred to in sub-paragraph (1) or (1A)(b) (as
the case may be) proceed to convene a meeting, the requisitionists, or any one of
them representing more than 50% of the total voting rights of all of them, may
themselves, in the same manner as nearly as possible as that in which meetings are
to be convened by the council, convene a meeting, but any meeting so convened
must not be held after the expiration of 3 months from that date.
(6) Any reasonable expenses incurred by the requisitionists by reason of the
failure of the council to convene a meeting must be paid to the requisitionists by
the management corporation.
(7) In the case of land in a development to which section 84D or 84E applies, the
general
meeting
may
be
convened
by
the
proprietors
mentioned
in
sub-paragraph (2), (2A), (3) or (3A) (as the case may be) in the same manner
as nearly as possible as that in which meetings are to be convened.
(8) For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (1A), (2A) and (3A), a relevant event
occurs when —
(a) no quorum of proprietors is present at a general meeting to constitute a
collective sale committee —
(i) of
a
management
corporation
under
sub-paragraph
(1)
convened on or after 15 July 2010;
(ii) of proprietors of flats in a development to which section 84D
applies under sub-paragraph (2) convened on or after 15 July
2010; or
(iii) of proprietors of flats in a development to which section 84E
applies under sub-paragraph (3) convened on or after 15 July
2010;
(b) the motion for the constitution of a collective sale committee, notice of
which was given in accordance with paragraph 3, is defeated at the
general meeting mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii);
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
101
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(c) the collective sale agreement executed among the subsidiary
proprietors that comprise the management corporation, or the
collective sale agreement executed among the proprietors of flats
mentioned in section 84D(2) or 84E(3), as the case may be, expires at
any time on or after 15 July 2010;
(d) the collective sale committee constituted for the purposes of a
collective sale of all lots and the common property in a strata title
plan to which section 84A or 84FA applies, or a collective sale of all
the flats and land in a development to which section 84D or 84E
applies, as the case may be, is dissolved at any time on or after 15 July
2010 by virtue of the operation of paragraph 12(2) of the
Third Schedule; or
(e) every member of a collective sale committee constituted for the
purposes of a collective sale mentioned in sub-paragraph (d) is
removed from office on or after 15 July 2010 and no other collective
sale committee is constituted in replacement for the purposes of the
same collective sale.
Method of holding meetings
2A.—(1) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (2), a general meeting may be
held —
(a) at a physical place;
(b) at a physical place and using virtual meeting technology; or
(c) using virtual meeting technology only.
(2) Despite sub-paragraph (1) —
(a) a general meeting must not be held using virtual meeting technology
only, unless all of the members who wish to participate at the meeting
have access to the virtual meeting technology needed to participate in
the meeting; and
(b) a general meeting must not be held using virtual meeting technology
only, if the management corporation has resolved —
(i) that the meeting must be held at a physical place or at a physical
place and using virtual meeting technology; or
(ii) that each general meeting must be held at a physical place or at
a physical place and using virtual meeting technology.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
102
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(3) Despite sub-paragraph (1), a general meeting of which notice has been
served before 1 July 2023 must not be held using virtual meeting technology only
unless the management corporation has so resolved.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Notice of general meetings
3.—(1) A notice of a general meeting of a management corporation must be
served on each subsidiary proprietor who is a member thereof and on the first
mortgagee of a lot, as ascertained from the strata roll, at least 14 days before the
meeting.
(2) Every notice for a general meeting must —
(a) specify all of the following:
(i) whether the meeting will be held —
(A) at a physical place;
(B) at a physical place and using virtual meeting technology;
or
(C) using virtual meeting technology only;
(ii) where the meeting will be held at a physical place or at a
physical place and using virtual meeting technology — the
location of the physical place;
(iii) the day and hour of the meeting;
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(b) include each proposed resolution to be considered at the meeting;
(c) specify any other business to be transacted at the meeting; and
(d) inform each person to whom the notice is addressed that the person
may vote in respect of each proposed resolution and, where relevant,
on election of members of the collective sale committee —
(i) in the case of a subsidiary proprietor of a lot subject to a first
mortgage shown on the strata roll, only if the mortgagee fails or
neglects to exercise the voting power conferred upon the
mortgagee by this Schedule; and
(ii) either in person or by proxy at the meeting.
(2A) Where a general meeting is to be held (whether wholly or partly) using
virtual meeting technology, every notice for the general meeting, in addition to
complying with sub-paragraph (2) —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
103
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(a) must describe the means by which the general meeting can be
electronically
accessed
using
the
virtual
meeting
technology
(including the online location, if the general meeting is to be held at
an online location); and
(b) must state how each person to whom the notice is addressed may vote
by electronic means.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(3) A motion must not be submitted at a general meeting unless —
(a) notice of the motion has been given in accordance with this paragraph;
or
(b) the motion is a motion to amend a motion of which notice has been so
given.
(4) A motion for the constitution of a collective sale committee and its powers,
duties or functions is to be decided by ordinary resolution passed at the general
meeting.
(5) In the case of land in a development to which section 84D or 84E applies, a
notice of a general meeting of the proprietors of the flats must be served on each
proprietor by registered post at his last recorded address at the Land Titles
Registry or the Registry of Deeds and placing a copy of the notice under the main
door of every flat in the development.
Persons entitled to vote at general meetings
4.—(1) A person is entitled to vote in respect of any lot on any proposal
submitted at a general meeting of a management corporation or on any election of
members of the collective sale committee only if the person is the subsidiary
proprietor or a mortgagee in possession or a receiver of that lot as shown on the
strata roll.
(2) Despite any other provision of this paragraph, a first mortgagee, as shown on
the strata roll, of a lot is entitled to vote in respect of that lot on any proposal
submitted at a general meeting of a management corporation or on any election of
members of the collective sale committee and, if that mortgagee votes on that
proposal, any vote cast by the subsidiary proprietor of that lot on the proposal must
not be counted.
(3) The vote of co-proprietors or co-mortgagees may be cast by any of them in
person or by a proxy and if both joint subsidiary proprietors or co-mortgagees are
present at a meeting of the management corporation, the vote of the senior who
casts a vote, whether in person or by a proxy, must be accepted to the exclusion of
the votes of the others; and for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in
which the names stand in the strata roll.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
104
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(4) In the case of land in a development to which section 84D or 84E applies, the
seniority is determined by the order in which the names appear in the records at the
Land Titles Registry or the Registry of Deeds.
(5) Only the subsidiary proprietor entitled to the first of 2 or more successive
estates in a lot is, subject to this Schedule, entitled to cast a vote on any proposal
submitted at a general meeting of a management corporation or on any election of
members of the collective sale committee.
(6) A subsidiary proprietor who is the trustee of a lot is, subject to this Schedule,
entitled to cast a vote on any proposal submitted at a general meeting of a
management corporation or on any election of members of the collective sale
committee and the persons beneficially interested in the trust are not entitled to
cast such a vote.
(7) The voting rights conferred by this paragraph are subject to section 65(9) and
(10) of the Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004.
Quorum
5.—(1) No business is to be transacted at any general meeting of a management
corporation unless a quorum of subsidiary proprietors is present.
(2) A quorum is formed at any general meeting of a management corporation
constituted in respect of a strata title plan when the number of subsidiary
proprietors who own at least 30% of the aggregate share value for all lots
comprised in that strata title plan are present at the meeting, either in person or by
proxy.
(3) In the case of land in a development to which section 84D or 84E applies, the
quorum is formed at any general meeting of the proprietors of the flats when the
number of proprietors who own at least 30% of the share or notional share in land,
as the case may be, are present at the meeting, either in person or by proxy.
(4) If at the end of 60 minutes after the time appointed for holding a general
meeting of a management corporation mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) or the
proprietors of flats mentioned in sub-paragraph (3), no quorum as specified in
sub-paragraph (2) or (3) (as the case may be) is present, that general meeting
immediately stands dissolved.
Motions out of order
6. At a general meeting of a management corporation, its chairperson may rule
that a motion submitted at the meeting is out of order if he or she considers that the
motion, if carried, would conflict with this Act or would otherwise be unlawful or
unenforceable.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
105
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Method of casting vote
7. Except as provided in paragraph 4(3), a vote on a motion submitted at a
general meeting of a management corporation or on any election of members of
the collective sale committee may be cast by the person entitled to vote, either
personally or by the person’s duly appointed proxy.
Voting by electronic means
7A. A person entitled to vote at a general meeting of a management corporation
may vote by electronic means only if all the following are satisfied:
(a) the electronic voting system used is capable of accurately counting all
votes cast for and against any proposal submitted at the meeting;
(b) the electronic voting system used is capable of providing records from
which the operation of the electronic voting system may be audited and
for verification of the accuracy of the recording and counting of votes;
(c) the chairperson must, during the meeting, declare the result of the
voting by electronic means on any proposal submitted at the meeting.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Chairperson to preside
8. The chairperson of the management corporation presides at any general
meeting of the management corporation at which he or she is present and, in his or
her absence from any such meeting, the persons present at that meeting and
entitled to vote on motions submitted at that meeting may elect one of their
number to preside at that meeting and the person so elected is, while he or she is so
presiding, deemed to be the chairperson of the management corporation.
List of names of persons entitled to vote
9. The secretary of the management corporation must put up a list of the names
of the persons who are entitled to vote at a general meeting on the notice board
maintained on the common property at least 48 hours before the general meeting.
Counting of votes on motion
10.—(1) A motion submitted at a general meeting of a management corporation
must be decided only according to the value, ascertained in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), of the votes cast for and against the motion, whether
personally or by proxy.
(2) Subject to sub-paragraph (3), for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), the value
of a vote cast on a motion submitted at a general meeting of a management
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
106
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
corporation by a person entitled to vote in respect of a lot is equal to the share
value of that lot.
(3) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), the value of the vote cast by a
subsidiary proprietor of a proposed lot is 25% of the value that, but for this
sub-paragraph,
the
subsidiary
proprietor’s
vote
would
have
under
sub-paragraph (2), ignoring any fraction.
(4) A poll must be taken in such manner as the chairperson thinks fit.
Chairperson’s declaration of vote
11. The declaration of the chairperson of the result of the voting on any proposal
submitted at a general meeting of the management corporation is conclusive.
Minutes of general meeting
11A.—(1) The management corporation must keep or cause to be kept minutes
of every general meeting of a management corporation.
(2) The minutes mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) must contain the following
information:
(a) the date, time and place of the meeting;
(b) the names of the subsidiary proprietors present at the meeting;
(c) the names of the subsidiary proprietors who have appointed proxies;
(d) the names of the proxies present at the meeting;
(e) the result of the votes on every motion submitted at the meeting;
(f) the text of every resolution passed at the meeting.
(3) In addition to sub-paragraph (2), if the general meeting was held using
virtual meeting technology (whether wholly or partly), the minutes must —
(a) state that fact;
(b) state the virtual meeting technology used; and
(c) in respect of each person who was present at the general meeting using
virtual meeting technology, state the fact that the person was present
using virtual meeting technology.
(4) Where a general meeting was held wholly using virtual meeting technology,
the requirement that the minutes of the meeting must specify the place for the
meeting under sub-paragraph (2)(a) does not apply.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
107
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Company may appoint representative to attend meetings
12. A company which is a subsidiary proprietor may under the seal of the
company or the hand of its director or any duly authorised attorney appoint such
person as it thinks fit to act as its representative either at a particular meeting or at
all meetings of the management corporation, and a person so authorised is, in
accordance with his or her authority or until his or her authority is revoked by the
company, entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of the company as the
company could exercise if it were an individual.
Instrument of proxy
13.—(1) An instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing —
(a) under the hand of the person appointing the proxy or of the person’s
attorney duly authorised in writing; or
(b) if the person appointing the proxy is a company, either under the seal or
under the hand of an officer or its attorney duly authorised.
(2) Where it is desired to afford subsidiary proprietors an opportunity of voting
for or against a resolution, the instrument appointing a proxy must be in the
following form:
*I/We,
........................................
of
being
*a
member/members
of
the
abovenamed
management
corporation,
appoint
........................................,
of ........................................, as *my/our proxy to attend at the [annual or
extraordinary (as the case may be)] general meeting of the management
corporation
or
subsidiary
management
corporation,
to
be
held
on
.......... 20 .........., and at any adjournment of the meeting and to vote for
*me/us on *my/our behalf in the following manner:
Resolution
For
Against
Abstain
Notes:
1. A subsidiary proprietor may direct the subsidiary proprietor’s proxy to vote
on the resolution by ticking the desired box (in favour of/against the resolution or
abstain from voting) in the above table. An abstain vote will not be counted in the
calculation of votes.
2. If the subsidiary proprietor does not indicate the subsidiary proprietor’s
voting preference in the above table, the proxy may vote or abstain from voting at
the proxy’s discretion, in relation to any matter which is put before the meeting
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
108
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
(including any resolution to adjourn the meeting or to amend any resolution
proposed at the meeting).
3. This instrument appointing a proxy is void if *I am/we are present at the
meeting.
Signed on .................. 20 ........
..................................................
Signature(s) of subsidiary proprietor(s)
..................................................
Signature(s) of proxy
*delete whichever is inapplicable
(3) The instrument appointing a proxy is deemed to confer authority to demand
or join in demanding a poll.
(4) The instrument appointing a proxy is void if the person appointing the proxy
is present at the meeting.
(5) An appointed proxy can only represent a person or persons appointing the
proxy —
(a) being a proprietor or proprietors, in the case of land in a development
to which section 84D or 84E applies, of the higher of the following:
(i) 2 or fewer flats;
(ii) a number of flats not exceeding 2% of the total number of flats
in the development (rounded down to the nearest whole
number); and
(b) in any other case, being a subsidiary proprietor or subsidiary
proprietors of the higher of the following:
(i) 2 or fewer lots;
(ii) a number of lots not exceeding 2% of the total number of lots in
the development (rounded down to the nearest whole number).
(6) In the event an appointed proxy represents more than the maximum
permitted in sub-paragraph (5), the additional instrument of proxy held is void.
Submission of instrument of proxy
14.—(1) The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other
authority (if any) under which the instrument is signed, or a notarially certified
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
109
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
copy
of
that
power
or
authority,
must,
within
the
time
specified
in
sub-paragraph (2) —
(a) be deposited —
(i) at the registered address of the management corporation; or
(ii) at any other place in Singapore that is specified for that purpose
in the notice convening the meeting; or
(b) be sent by electronic mail to an electronic mail address of the
management corporation as is specified for that purpose in the notice
convening the meeting or fixing the adjourned meeting.
(2) The time mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) is the following:
(a) in the case of a poll, at least 48 hours before the time appointed for the
taking of the poll;
(b) in any other case, at least 48 hours before the time for holding the
meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the
instrument proposes to vote.
(3) An instrument of proxy that is not submitted in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) is not to be treated as valid.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Powers of proxies
15.—(1) A proxy need not be a subsidiary proprietor.
(2) Subject to sub-paragraph (3), a person duly appointed as a proxy —
(a) if entitled to vote otherwise than as a proxy, may also vote in the
person’s own right; and
(b) if appointed as proxy for more than one person, may vote separately as
a proxy in each case.
(3) A proxy cannot exercise a vote in relation to a matter if the person who
appointed the proxy is exercising personally a power to vote on the matter.
Authority not to be revoked by death of principal, etc.
16. A vote given in accordance with the terms of an instrument of proxy or
attorney is valid despite the previous death or mental disorder of the principal or
revocation of the instrument or of the authority under which the instrument was
executed, or the transfer of the share in respect of which the instrument is given, if
no notification in writing of such death, mental disorder, revocation or transfer as
aforesaid has been received by the management corporation at its registered
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
110
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
address or such other place in Singapore mentioned in paragraph 14 before the
commencement of the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the instrument is
used.
[13/2010; S 365/2010; S 24/2021]
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
THIRD SCHEDULE
Sections 84A(1A)(b), (3), (7C) and
(14), 84D(9) and (9A), 84E(15) and
(15A) and 84FA(16)
COMPOSITION, CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF
COLLECTIVE SALE COMMITTEE
Members of collective sale committee
1.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (2), a collective sale committee comprises
such number of persons as may be determined in a general meeting convened in
accordance with the Second Schedule, but in no case less than 3 members or more
than 14 members who are natural persons.
(2) Despite sub-paragraph (1), where the number of subsidiary proprietors of the
lots in a strata title plan is not more than 3, the collective sale committee must
consist of each subsidiary proprietor (if any) who is a natural person or the
subsidiary proprietor’s nominee, together with the nominee of each subsidiary
proprietor (if any) which is a company.
(3) A person is not eligible for election as a member of a collective sale
committee unless he or she is an individual of at least 21 years of age and who —
(a) is a subsidiary proprietor of a lot;
(b) is nominated for election by a subsidiary proprietor of a lot which is a
company; or
(c) is not a subsidiary proprietor but is a member of the immediate family
of a subsidiary proprietor and is nominated for election by that
subsidiary proprietor.
(4) Despite sub-paragraph (3), the following persons are also not eligible for
election as a member of the collective sale committee:
(a) an individual who is a joint subsidiary proprietor of a lot with another
subsidiary proprietor, if that other subsidiary proprietor is also a
candidate at that election or has nominated another person for that
election; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
111
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(b) an individual who is nominated for election by a subsidiary proprietor
who owns 2 or more lots, if that subsidiary proprietor together with any
of that subsidiary proprietor’s nominees —
(i) nominated at the same election; or
(ii) elected to the collective sale committee at the same or other
election,
or such of that subsidiary proprietor’s nominees, exceed the threshold number for
that subsidiary proprietor determined in accordance with sub-paragraph (6).
(5) Despite sub-paragraph (3) and without prejudice to sub-paragraph (4) —
(a) an undischarged bankrupt; or
(b) a subsidiary proprietor of a lot whose contributions and other moneys
levied or recoverable by the management corporation under the
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004 in respect of
that lot are in arrears,
is eligible for election as a member of a collective sale committee if, and only if,
his or her status referred to in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) is declared in writing,
whether by himself or herself or by another, at the time of his or her nomination.
(6) For the purposes of determining the eligibility of any subsidiary proprietor’s
nominee for election as a member of a collective sale committee under
sub-paragraph (4)(b), the threshold number for that subsidiary proprietor is —
(a) the number of collective sale committee members that is proportional
to the subsidiary proprietor’s share value, ignoring any fraction; or
(b) 49% of the number of collective sale committee members determined
under sub-paragraph (1), ignoring any fraction,
whichever number is the lower.
Disclosure of conflict of interests
2.—(1) If a person standing for election as a member of a collective sale
committee is aware of any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest (if
any) with his or her duties or interests as a member of the collective sale
committee (should he or she be elected) arising from —
(a) his or her holding of any office;
(b) his or her interest in any contract, whether alone or together with any of
his or her associates;
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
112
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(c) his or her possession or ownership of any lot or common property that
may be the subject of the collective sale, whether alone or together
with any of his or her associates;
(d) any direct or indirect relationship the person or any associate of the
person has with any property developer, property consultant,
marketing agent or legal firm;
(e) the holding of any office by any of his or her associates;
(f) his or her associate’s interest in a contract; or
(g) his or her associate’s possession or ownership of any lot or common
property that may be the subject of the collective sale,
the person must, before his or her election, declare at the general meeting
convened for such election, the nature and extent of all such conflicts of interest or
potential conflicts of interest.
(2) The election of any person who fails to comply with sub-paragraph (1) is
void.
(3) If a member of a collective sale committee becomes aware of any conflict of
interest or potential conflict of interest (if any) with his or her duties or interests as
a member of the collective sale committee arising from —
(a) his or her holding of any office;
(b) his or her interest in any contract, whether alone or together with any of
his or her associates;
(c) his or her possession or ownership of any lot or common property that
may be the subject of the collective sale, whether alone or together
with any of his or her associates;
(d) any direct or indirect relationship the member or any associate of the
member has with any property developer, property consultant,
marketing agent or legal firm;
(e) the holding of any office by any of his or her associates;
(f) his or her associate’s interest in a contract; or
(g) his or her associate’s possession or ownership of any lot or common
property that may be the subject of the collective sale,
the member must, within the relevant period, declare in writing to the chairperson
of the collective sale committee, the nature and extent of all such conflicts of
interest or potential conflicts of interest.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
113
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(4) The collective sale committee whose member has made any such declaration
under sub-paragraph (3) must, within 7 days after the making of the declaration,
give notice of the making of the declaration by causing a copy of the declaration to
be affixed to a conspicuous part of each building comprised in the strata title plan
or development, as the case may be.
(5) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3), “relevant period” means —
(a) in the case of a person who, on 15 July 2010, is a member of a
collective sale committee — a period of 30 days after that date; or
(b) in any other case — 7 days after becoming aware of all conflicts of
interest or potential conflicts of interest (if any) with his or her duties or
interests as a member of the collective sale committee arising from the
circumstances described in sub-paragraph (3).
(6) For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (1) and (3), a person (A) is an associate of
another person (B) if —
(a) A is the spouse or a parent, remoter lineal ancestor or step-parent or a
son, daughter, remoter issue, stepson or stepdaughter or a brother or
sister, of B;
(b) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation, whether
formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions,
instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a corporation, of the
directors of B;
(c) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation, whether
formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions,
instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a corporation, of the
directors of A;
(d) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or arrangement, whether
oral or in writing and whether express or implied, to act together with
respect to the acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their voting power in
relation to, any property developer, property consultant, marketing
agent or legal firm;
(e) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other associates of
B as described in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), is in a position to control
not less than 5% of the voting power in A.
Appointment of chairperson
3. The chairperson of the collective sale committee must be appointed from
among its members.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
114
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Tenure of office of member
4. A member of the collective sale committee holds office for the duration of the
collective sale agreement until —
(a) the collective sale committee is dissolved; or
(b) he or she vacates office under paragraph 5.
Vacation of office of member of collective sale committee
5. A person who is a member of a collective sale committee vacates his or her
office as such a member —
(a) if the person was a subsidiary proprietor at the time of his or her
election and ceases to be a subsidiary proprietor;
(b) if the person was the nominee of a subsidiary proprietor and the
subsidiary proprietor who nominated him or her —
(i) ceases to be a subsidiary proprietor; or
(ii) notifies the collective sale committee in writing that the
person’s office as a member of the collective sale committee is
vacated;
(c) upon the receipt by the collective sale committee from the person of a
notice in writing of the person’s resignation;
(d) where the person is a member under paragraph 1(2) and the number of
subsidiary proprietors increases to more than 3, upon the election of
the members of the collective sale committee at a general meeting
convened after that increase;
(e) if the person is removed from office at a general meeting;
(ea) if the person is removed from office by the collective sale committee in
accordance with paragraph 8 on the ground that an application to a
Board has been made under section 84A or 84FA during his or her
tenure as a member and the person is a subsidiary proprietor, or a
nominee of a subsidiary proprietor, who has not executed the collective
sale agreement to which the application relates;
(f) if the person dies;
(g) if the person becomes a mentally disordered person within the meaning
of the repealed Mental Disorders and Treatment Act (Cap. 178,
1985 Revised Edition); or
(h) if the person is convicted, on or after 4 October 2007, by a court in
Singapore or elsewhere of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty.
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
115
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Chairperson to preside at meetings
6. The chairperson of a collective sale committee presides at all meetings of the
collective sale committee at which he or she is present and, if he or she is absent
from any such meeting, the members of the collective sale committee present at
that meeting must appoint one of their number to preside at that meeting during the
absence of the chairperson.
General meetings convened by collective sale committee
7.—(1) The collective sale committee must convene one or more general
meetings of the management corporation in accordance with the Second Schedule
for the following purposes:
(a) to appoint any advocate and solicitor, any property consultant or
marketing agent in connection with a collective sale where the
collective sale committee is not already authorised at a general meeting
to make such appointments;
(b) to approve the apportionment of sale proceeds;
(c) to approve the terms and conditions of the collective sale agreement.
(d) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(e) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(f) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(g) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2010]
(2) The meeting for any of the purposes in sub-paragraph (1)(a), (b) and (c) must
be convened before any subsidiary proprietor signs the collective sale agreement.
(3) After the subsidiary proprietors mentioned in section 84A(1) or 84FA(2)
have signed a collective sale agreement but before the launch for sale mentioned in
paragraph 11, the collective sale committee must convene a meeting of subsidiary
proprietors, of which at least 7 days’ notice is given —
(a) to give an update on the total number of subsidiary proprietors who,
immediately before the date of the meeting, have signed the collective
sale agreement; and
(b) to provide information on the sale proposal and the sale process.
(4) As soon as practicable after the close of the public tender or public auction
mentioned in paragraph 11 or, where applicable, after the collective sale
committee has entered into a private contract under that paragraph, the
collective sale committee must convene a meeting of subsidiary proprietors, of
which at least 7 days’ notice is given —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
116
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(a) to provide information on the number of offers received for the
collective sale and the respective prices so offered; and
(b) to provide information on the terms and conditions of the sale and
purchase agreement.
Convening, holding or conducting meetings of collective sale committee
7A.—(1) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (2), a meeting of a collective sale
committee may be convened, held or conducted —
(a) at a physical place;
(b) at a physical place and using virtual meeting technology; or
(c) using virtual meeting technology only.
(2) Despite sub-paragraph (1), a meeting of a collective sale committee must not
be convened, held or conducted using virtual meeting technology only, unless all
of the members who wish to participate at the meeting have access to the virtual
meeting technology needed to participate in the meeting.
(3) In this paragraph, “virtual meeting technology” means any technology that
allows a person to participate in a meeting without being physically present at the
place of meeting.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Meetings of collective sale committee
8.—(1) At any meeting of a collective sale committee, a quorum consists of the
majority of the members of the collective sale committee except that where a
management corporation for a strata title plan has only 2 subsidiary proprietors,
the presence of the member who owns more than 50% of the aggregate share value
of all the lots comprised in the strata title plan is the quorum required to convene
the meeting of the collective sale committee.
(2) A decision of the majority of members of the collective sale committee
present and voting at any meeting of the collective sale committee is a decision of
the collective sale committee except that where a management corporation for a
strata title plan has only 2 subsidiary proprietors, the decision of the member who
owns more than 50% of the aggregate share value of all the lots comprised in the
strata title plan is the decision of the collective sale committee.
(3) A collective sale committee must cause a record of its decisions and minutes
of its meetings to be kept.
(4) A member of the collective sale committee may vote by electronic means
only if all the following are satisfied:
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
117
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(a) the electronic voting system used is capable of accurately counting all
votes cast for and against any proposal submitted at the meeting;
(b) the electronic voting system used is capable of providing records from
which the operation of the electronic voting system may be audited and
for verification of the accuracy of the recording and counting of votes.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(5) A collective sale committee must cause a record of its decisions and minutes
of its meetings to be kept.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(6) For the purposes of this paragraph, where a meeting of a collective sale
committee is convened, held or conducted (whether wholly or partly) using virtual
meeting technology, a member of the collective sale committee who attends the
meeting using virtual meeting technology is to be treated as being present if the
member —
(a) is able to participate in the proceedings of the meeting using the virtual
meeting technology provided to the person;
(b) is verified by the secretary of the collective sale committee or a person
appointed by the collective sale committee to verify the quorum as
attending the meeting in the manner specified in sub-paragraph (a);
and
(c) is acknowledged by electronic means by the chairperson of the
meeting as attending the meeting.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(7) In this paragraph —
“electronic means” means electronic communication, video conferencing,
tele-conferencing or other electronic means;
“virtual meeting technology” has the meaning given by paragraph 7A(3).
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Keeping of records
9.—(1) The collective sale committee must —
(a) keep minutes of its proceedings; and
(b) cause minutes of general meetings convened in accordance with the
Second Schedule to be kept.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
118
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(1A) The minutes of every general meeting convened in accordance with the
Second Schedule mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) must contain the following
information:
(a) the date, time and place of the meeting;
(b) the names of the subsidiary proprietors present at the meeting;
(c) the names of the subsidiary proprietors who have appointed proxies;
(d) the names of the proxies present at the meeting;
(e) the result of the votes on every motion submitted at the meeting;
(f) the text of every resolution passed at the meeting.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(1B) In addition to sub-paragraph (1A), if the general meeting was held using
virtual meeting technology (whether wholly or partly), the minutes must —
(a) state that fact;
(b) state the virtual meeting technology used; and
(c) in respect of each person who was present at the general meeting using
virtual meeting technology, state the fact that the person was present
using virtual meeting technology.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(1C) Where a general meeting was held wholly using virtual meeting
technology, the requirement that the minutes of the meeting must specify the
place for the meeting under sub-paragraph (1A)(a) does not apply.
[S 444/2023 wef 01/07/2023]
(2) If the management corporation is required by its by-laws to maintain a notice
board, the collective sale committee must cause a copy of the minutes of a meeting
of the collective sale committee to be displayed on the notice board within 7 days
after the meeting.
(3) A copy of any minutes mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) must be kept
displayed on the notice board for not less than 14 days.
(4) If there is no notice board, the collective sale committee must give each
subsidiary proprietor a copy of the minutes mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) within
the period specified in that sub-paragraph.
(5) The collective sale committee must —
(a) ensure that proper books of account are kept in respect of all sums of
money received and expended for the purposes of a collective sale
specifying the matters in relation to which the receipts and expenditure
take place; and
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
119
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(b) on the application of a subsidiary proprietor or mortgagee of a lot (or
any person authorised in writing by the subsidiary proprietor or
mortgagee), make the books of account available for inspection at all
reasonable times.
Acts of collective sale committee valid despite vacancy, etc.
10. Any act or proceeding of a collective sale committee done in good faith is,
despite that at the time when the act or proceeding was done, taken or commenced
there was —
(a) a vacancy in the office of a member of the collective sale committee; or
(b) any defect in the appointment or any disqualification of any such
member,
as valid as if the vacancy, defect or disqualification did not exist and the collective
sale committee were fully and properly constituted.
Collective sale by public tender or auction
11.—(1) The collective sale of all lots and common property in a strata title plan
must be launched for sale only by way of public tender or public auction.
(2) Avaluation report by an independent valuer on the value of the development
as at the date of the close of the public tender or public auction must be obtained by
the collective sale committee on the date of the close of the public tender or public
auction.
(3) Despite sub-paragraph (1), the collective sale committee may, within
10 weeks from the close of the public tender or public auction, enter into a private
contract with a purchaser for the sale of all the lots and common property in a
strata title plan.
Termination of collective sale committee
12.—(1) A collective sale committee may be dissolved —
(a) by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the management
corporation convened in accordance with the Second Schedule; or
(b) upon the termination or expiry of the collective sale agreement.
(2) A collective sale committee that is constituted for the purposes of a
collective sale of all lots and the common property in a strata title plan to which
section 84A or 84FA applies, or a collective sale of all the flats and land in a
development to which section 84D or 84E applies, must be dissolved if —
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
2020 Ed.
120
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
(a) in the case of such a committee that is constituted before 15 July
2010 — at the end of 12 months after that date; or
(b) in any other case — at the end of 12 months after the committee is
constituted,
there is no collective sale agreement for that collective sale or no subsidiary
proprietor or proprietor (as the case may be) has executed a collective sale
agreement for that collective sale.
[13/2010; S 365/2010]
FOURTH SCHEDULE
Section 84A(8)(a) and (c) and (14)
DEDUCTIONS ALLOWABLE BY BOARD OR
GENERAL DIVISION OF HIGH COURT
1. Stamp duty paid or payable on the sale, purchase, or sale and purchase (as the
case may be) of the lot or flat.
2. Legal fees paid in relation to the purchase of the lot or flat.
3. Costs related to the privatisation of any designated land as defined in the
repealed section 126A.
4. Costs incurred pursuant to the collective sale which are to be shared by all
subsidiary proprietors or proprietors as provided under the collective sale
agreement.
[40/2019; 4/2021; S 365/2010; S 680/2013]
Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
121
2020 Ed.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
LAND TITLES (STRATA) ACT 1967
This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.
1. Act 41 of 1967 — Land Titles (Strata) Act, 1967
Bill
:
60/1966
First Reading
:
21 December 1966
Second Reading
:
27 February 1967
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 12 of 1967
Third Reading
:
21 December 1967
Commencement
:
15 May 1968
2. Act 37 of 1970 — Land Titles (Amendment) Act, 1970
(Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)
Bill
:
32/1970
First Reading
:
22 July 1970
Second Reading
:
2 September 1970
Notice of Amendments
:
2 September 1970
Third Reading
:
2 September 1970
Commencement
:
1 December 1970 (section 22)
3. 1970 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 277)
Operation
:
31 August 1971
4. Act 4 of 1976 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act, 1976
Bill
:
32/1975
First Reading
:
29 July 1975
Second Reading
:
19 August 1975
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 1 of 1976
Third Reading
:
1 March 1976
Commencement
:
15 April 1976
5. 1976 Reprint — The Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 277)
Reprint
:
10 September 1976
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Act 23 of 1982 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act, 1982
Bill
:
13/1982
First Reading
:
27 July 1982
Second and Third Readings
:
31 August 1982
Commencement
:
15 October 1982
7. 1985 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 158)
Operation
:
30 March 1987
8. Act 16 of 1987 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act 1987
Bill
:
10/1986
First Reading
:
5 May 1986
Second Reading
:
29 July 1986
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 10 of 1987
Third Reading
:
28 July 1987
Commencement
:
1 December 1987
9. 1988 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 158)
Operation
:
30 April 1988
10. G.N. No. S 143/1989 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification) (No. 2)
Order 1989
Operation
:
30 April 1988
11. Act 24 of 1991 — Land Surveyors Act 1991
(Amendments made by section 52(1) read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
11/1991
First Reading
:
27 February 1991
Second Reading
:
22 March 1991
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 3 of 1991
Third Reading
:
28 June 1991
Commencement
:
30 August 1991 (section 52(1) read
with item (1) of the Schedule)
12. Act 27 of 1995 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act 1995
Bill
:
22/1995
ii
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First Reading
:
25 May 1995
Second and Third Readings
:
7 July 1995
Commencement
:
4 August 1995
13. G.N. No. S 92/1997 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
Order 1997
Operation
:
30 April 1988
14. Act 3 of 1998 — Planning Act 1998
(Amendments made by section 65 read with item (7) of the Second Schedule
to the above Act)
Bill
:
18/1997
First Reading
:
19 November 1997
Second Reading
:
14 January 1998
Notice of Amendments
:
14 January 1998
Third Reading
:
14 January 1998
Commencement
:
1 April 1998 (section 65 read with
item (7) of the Second Schedule)
15. Act 21 of 1999 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act 1999
Bill
:
28/1998
First Reading
:
29 June 1998
Second Reading
:
31 July 1998
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 2 of 1999
Third Reading
:
4 May 1999
Commencement
:
11 October 1999
16. 1999 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 158)
Operation
:
30 December 1999
17. Act 17 of 2001 — Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
(Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (11) of the
Fourth Schedule to the above Act)
Bill
:
17/2001
First Reading
:
5 March 2001
Second and Third Readings
:
19 April 2001
iii
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commencement
:
1 June 2001 (section 38(1) read with
item (11) of the Fourth Schedule)
18. Act 38 of 2002 — Stamp Duties (Amendment) Act 2002
(Amendments made by section 11 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
40/2002
First Reading
:
31 October 2002
Second and Third Readings
:
25 November 2002
Commencement
:
1 January 2003 (section 11 read with
item (4) of the Schedule)
19. Act 30 of 2003 — Planning (Amendment) Act 2003
(Amendments made by section 20 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
27/2003
First Reading
:
16 October 2003
Second and Third Readings
:
11 November 2003
Commencement
:
10 December 2003 (section 20 read
with item (3) of the Schedule)
20. G.N. No. S 243/2004 — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Amendment of
Fourth Schedule) Order 2004
Commencement
:
1 May 2004
21. Act 7 of 2004 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2004
(Amendments made by section 28 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
5/2004
First Reading
:
5 January 2004
Second and Third Readings
:
6 February 2004
Commencement
:
16 February 2005 (section 28 read
with item (1) of the Schedule)
22. Act 37 of 2004 — Land Surveyors (Amendment) Act 2004
(Amendments made by section 17 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
36/2004
First Reading
:
1 September 2004
iv
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Second and Third Readings
:
21 September 2004
Commencement
:
31 March 2005 (section 17 read with
item (3) of the Schedule)
23. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
2004
(Amendments made by section 138(1) read with the Third Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
6/2004
First Reading
:
6 February 2004
Second Reading
:
19 April 2004
Select Committee Report
:
Parl. 5 of 2004
Third Reading
:
19 October 2004
Commencement
:
1 April 2005 (section 138(1) read with
the Third Schedule, except item (5) in
the Third Schedule)
24. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
(Amendments made by section 17 of the above Act)
Bill
:
30/2005
First Reading
:
17 October 2005
Second and Third Readings
:
21 November 2005
Commencement
:
1 January 2006 (section 17
except section 17(e) to (j))
25. Act 46 of 2007 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act 2007
Bill
:
32/2007
First Reading
:
27 August 2007
Second and Third Readings
:
20 September 2007
Commencement
:
4 October 2007
26. Act 30 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2008
(Amendments made by section 9 of the above Act)
Bill
:
27/2008
First Reading
:
15 September 2008
Second and Third Readings
:
17 November 2008
Commencement
:
17 December 2008 (section 9)
v
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
27. 2009 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Chapter 158)
Operation
:
31 July 2009
28. Act 13 of 2010 — Land Titles (Strata) (Amendment) Act 2010
Bill
:
9/2010
First Reading
:
26 April 2010
Second and Third Readings
:
18 May 2010
Commencement
:
15 July 2010
29. G.N. No. S 365/2010 — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Amendment
of Schedules) Order 2010
Commencement
:
16 July 2010
30. G.N. No. S 111/2011 — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Amendment of
First Schedule) Order 2011
Commencement
:
2 March 2011
31. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
(Amendments made by section 24 of the above Act)
Bill
:
22/2011
First Reading
:
21 November 2011
Second Reading
:
18 January 2012
Notice of Amendments
:
18 January 2012
Third Reading
:
18 January 2012
Commencement
:
1 March 2012 (section 24)
32. G.N. No. S 680/2013 — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Amendment of
Fourth Schedule) Order 2013
Commencement
:
7 November 2013
33. Act 35 of 2017 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management
(Amendment) Act 2017
(Amendments made by section 62 of the above Act)
Bill
:
29/2017
First Reading
:
1 August 2017
Second and Third Readings
:
11 September 2017
Commencement
:
1 February 2019 (section 62)
vi
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
34. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
(Amendments made by section 486 of the above Act)
Bill
:
32/2018
First Reading
:
10 September 2018
Second and Third Readings
:
1 October 2018
Commencement
:
30 July 2020 (section 486)
35. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
(Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 83 of the Schedule to the
above Act)
Bill
:
32/2019
First Reading
:
7 October 2019
Second Reading
:
5 November 2019
Notice of Amendments
:
5 November 2019
Third Reading
:
5 November 2019
Commencement
:
2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
with item 83 of the Schedule)
36. G.N. No. S 24/2021 — Land Titles (Strata) Act (Amendment of Second
Schedule) Order 2021
Commencement
:
18 January 2021
37. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
(Amendments made by section 22(6) of the above Act)
Bill
:
45/2020
First Reading
:
3 November 2020
Second and Third Readings
:
5 January 2021
Commencement
:
1 March 2021 (section 22(6))
38. 2020 Revised Edition — Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967
Operation
:
31 December 2021
39. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
(Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)
Bill
:
18/2021
First Reading
:
26 July 2021
Second and Third Readings
:
14 September 2021
vii
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commencement
:
1 April 2022
40. G.N. No. S 444/2023 — Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967 (Amendment of
Second and Third Schedules) Order 2023
Date of commencement
:
1 July 2023
Abbreviations
.
(updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N.
Gazette Notification
G.N. Sp.
Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.A.
Legislative Assembly
L.N.
Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
M.
Malaya/Malaysia
(including
Federated
Malay
States,
Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
Malaysia)
Parl.
Parliament
S
Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.
Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)
Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.
Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)
Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
viii
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
