 
 
‘s 
 
Regulatory Charter 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM 2022 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE)  
Hīkina Whakatutuki – Lifting to make successful 
 
MBIE develops and delivers policy, services, advice and regulation to support economic growth and the prosperity and 
wellbeing of New Zealanders. MBIE combines the former Ministries of Economic Development, Science and Innovation, 
and the Departments of Labour, and Building and Housing. 
MORE INFORMATION 
Information, examples and answers to your questions about the topics covered here can be found on our website: 
www.mbie.govt.nz or by calling us free on: 0800 20 90 20. 
DISCLAIMER 
This document is a guide only. It should not be used as a substitute for legislation or legal advice. The Ministry of Business, 
Innovation and Employment is not responsible for the results of any actions 
taken on the basis of information in this document, or for any errors or omissions. 
 
ISBN (online) 978-1-99-104130-2 
July 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
©Crown Copyright 
The material contained in this report is subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. The Crown copyright protected material 
may be reproduced free of charge in any format or media without requiring specific permission. This is subject to the material being reproduced 
accurately and not being used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Where the material is being published or issued to others, the 
source and copyright status should be acknowledged. The permission to reproduce Crown copyright protected material does not extend to any 
material in this report that is identified as being the copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material should be obtained from 
the copyright holders

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Regulatory charters 
 
Regulation is a key tool of Government that has a direct, daily impact on the 
lives of all New Zealanders. When done well, it supports our economy’s 
stability, growth, resilience and sustainability. 
PURPOSE OF A REGULATORY CHARTER 
Since 2013, when it was first included in the State Sector Act 1988 (now repealed), the concept of stewarding regulation, or 
regulatory stewardship, has gathered momentum in the public sector as an important mechanism for ensuring our 
regulatory systems (which give effect to regulation) are fit-for-purpose. The expectation on government agencies to be 
good stewards continues to be reflected in the Public Service Act 2020. 
A regulatory charter supports regulatory stewardship by taking a living regulatory system approach and reinforcing shared 
ownership for the system among those with regulatory functions in the system. Charters are designed to support 
cooperation between system participants and ensure any changes contribute to the desired outcomes of the system as a 
whole.  
WHAT’S IN THE REGULATORY CHARTER 
Regulatory charters: 
• 
clarify roles and responsibilities of system participants 
• 
identify overlaps in the regulatory system 
• 
identify gaps in the regulatory system  
• 
provide guidance to resolve systemic uncertainties when they arise. 
In addition, MBIE periodically undertakes assessments to identify risks, gaps, opportunities to improve and review its own 
performance as the steward of the system.  
CHARTER OWNERSHIP  
MBIE is formally responsible for the charter. The charter must record the shared understanding of all organisations with 
key roles in the building regulatory system. It is a product of, and vehicle for, dialogue across the system.  
CHARTER FUNCTIONALITY 
The charter describes the current building regulatory system and how it ought to work. It sets out the purpose of the 
system alongside the roles and relationships between participants. The building regulatory system is complex and MBIE is 
working to improve the system over time. The charter does not capture the future work programme but provides a 
foundation for understanding the current state, roles and responsibilities.  
CHARTER REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT 
The responsibility for keeping and reviewing this charter sits with MBIE. 
A review of this document should occur at least every five years and after significant changes to the Building Act 2004. 
A charter review should include assessments of: 
• 
whether system objectives, policy or context have changed over time 
• 
whether the charter should be updated to reflect these changes 
• 
whether, as a result of system assessments, progress has been made in addressing identified risks and closing gaps.  
The Building Regulatory System Charter was first published in July 2017, as part of MBIE’s commitment under the 
Regulatory Management Strategy to finalise five regulatory charters. This document comprises the 2022 update of the 
charter.  
A series of reforms are being undertaken to improve the overall effectiveness of the building system in the immediate and 
longer term. These changes will require an update of the charter to be undertaken within the next three years.  
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Contents 
1. 
Regulating the building sector ........................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 The building sector is crucial to New Zealand’s social, economic and environmental outcomes ................................ 1 
1.2 Evolving building landscape and new strategic challenges .......................................................................................... 1 
1.3 The building regulatory system is broad and complex ................................................................................................. 2 
1.4 Regulation of the building sector aims to deliver safe, healthy and durable homes and buildings ............................. 2 
1.5 Building for the Future – MBIE’s strategy for the regulatory system ........................................................................... 2 
2. 
Scope and purpose of the building regulatory system....................................................................................................... 3 
2.1 New Zealand has a performance-based building regulatory system ........................................................................... 3 
2.2 The Building Act controls building design and construction ........................................................................................ 3 
2.3 Different ways to demonstrate compliance with the Building Code ........................................................................... 4 
3. 
Roles within the regulatory system ................................................................................................................................... 6 
3.1 Overview of building regulatory system roles ............................................................................................................. 6 
3.2 MBIE’s roles: steward and central regulator ................................................................................................................ 6 
3.3 Territorial authorities and BCAs are the frontline of the building regulatory system .................................................. 8 
3.4 Building professionals and tradespeople ..................................................................................................................... 9 
3.5 Product manufacturers and suppliers .......................................................................................................................... 9 
3.6 Building users and building owners ............................................................................................................................. 9 
4. 
Oversight, checks and balances ....................................................................................................................................... 10 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
1. Regulating the building sector 
1.1 THE BUILDING SECTOR IS CRUCIAL TO NEW ZEALAND’S SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
OUTCOMES 
A well-functioning building sector has a positive effect on New Zealand’s economic stability, health, environment, and 
security. People expect that the buildings they live and work in are safe and well-built, and this is a key objective of the 
building regulatory system.  
Work in the building and construction sector has a significant impact on New Zealand’s economic performance. The 
sector: 
• 
makes up approximately 7 per cent of New Zealand’s GDP annually1 
• 
employs approximately 10 per cent of the national workforce at 285,000 people for the year ended December 2021 
- making it New Zealand’s fourth largest employer2 
• 
drives and supports activity in other parts of the economy, such as manufacturing, mining, transport, property and 
business services –PWC New Zealand estimated that a $1 investment in construction produces between $2.51 and 
$3.11 in economic activity3 
• 
impacts significantly on consumption levels, as home ownership and property values affect people’s perception of 
their wealth and financial security – for most New Zealand households, their home is their largest asset  
• 
delivers a key component of core infrastructure needed to support successful growth of the country. 
The building regulatory system is largely user pays, with core regulator activities funded by a building levy payable on work 
granted a building consent and valued above $20,0004. 
1.2 EVOLVING BUILDING LANDSCAPE AND NEW STRATEGIC CHALLENGES 
The building landscape continues to evolve in New Zealand, with the ongoing introduction of innovative building designs, 
technologies, and materials. These present opportunities to respond to and manage strategic challenges on the horizon.  
Impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic 
The emergence of the COVID-19 global pandemic in 2020 presented new challenges for the building and construction 
sector and for the regulatory environment. The impacts of lockdowns, the disruptions caused by global supply chain 
shortages, and unprecedented building demand domestically have forced the sector to adapt to new ways of operating. 
Impacts of the pandemic will continue to be felt over the long-term and will require innovative strategies for recovery in 
the construction industry.  
Impact of climate change 
Climate change presents another strategic challenge. New Zealand is facing a range of negative impacts from climate 
change5. Across New Zealand, natural hazards such as sea level rise, wind, rainfall, and wildfire are being exacerbated by 
climate change and pose a risk to buildings, homes and places. 
Cabinet has agreed a framework for the whole of Government6, which will drive climate change policy towards achieving a 
climate resilient and low emission New Zealand. It supports New Zealand’s international commitments, including a target 
of reducing emissions by 30 per cent below 2005 gross emissions (or 11 per cent below 1990 emissions) for the period 
2021 and reducing net emissions of all greenhouse gases (except biogenic methane) to zero by 20507. It also recognises 
that New Zealand needs to adapt to climate change impacts to address the changes already being seen and which the 
country will continue to encounter (even with a global reduction in future emissions). 
The building and construction sector contributes up to 22% of New Zealand’s greenhouse gas emissions (excluding short-
lived gases) [MBIE analysis, 2020], which are emitted throughout the life cycle of a building8. The sector and regulatory 
 
1 MBIE (2021), Building and Construction Sector Trends Annual Report 2021. 
2 Stats NZ (2020), Household Labour Force Survey. 
3 PWC (2016), Valuing the role of construction in the New Zealand economy.  
4 MBIE (2022), Building levy: Building Performance (figure of $20,000 correct as of March 2022).  
5 Ministry for the Environment (2022), Evidence of climate change.  
6Ministry for the Environment (2022), About New Zealand’s climate change programme.  
7 Climate Change Response (Zero Carbon) Amendment Act 2019. 
8 when building materials are produced, when buildings are constructed, through construction waste, during the disposal of a building at 
the end of its life, as energy and water are used during the operation of a building. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
system have important roles to play in reducing emissions alongside ensuring New Zealand's buildings are resilient to the 
changing climate, allowing people and communities to thrive.  
1.3 THE BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM IS BROAD AND COMPLEX 
The building sector is made up of the institutions and markets involved in the building, construction and maintenance of 
commercial and residential property in New Zealand, and covers: 
• 
direct service providers – designers, architects, engineers, builders/ other tradespeople, and product suppliers  
• 
financial institutions – banks and insurance companies 
• 
research agencies -including Building Research Association of New Zealand (BRANZ), universities, and Crown 
Research institutes 
• 
quality assurance and compliance organisations – territorial authorities, building consent authorities (BCAs), and 
conformity assessment bodies (CABs) 
• 
residential and commercial building owners and developers 
• 
building users. 
The sector is characterised by large numbers of small, diverse businesses, with many self-employed people. In 2021, 89 per 
cent of businesses involved in construction had five or fewer employees and there is high churn in the sector9. This churn 
may contribute to historically low productivity and adds a level of challenge to communicating and influencing change 
consistently across the sector.  
1.4 REGULATION OF THE BUILDING SECTOR AIMS TO DELIVER SAFE, HEALTHY AND DURABLE HOMES AND 
BUILDINGS  
New Zealand’s building regulatory system focuses on the development of robust minimum building standards, so that 
everyone has access to safe, healthy, durable homes and buildings. Regulation is a key tool used to influence the 
performance of the building sector because: 
• 
the building sector delivers public good benefits – poor performance in the sector has broad and significant 
negative impacts  
• 
there is information asymmetry – providers of services or products often have superior information to individual 
customers and regulation is used to protect consumers  
• 
there is a need to reflect societal expectations about health and safety and drive system-wide coordination – the 
overall integrity, soundness and efficiency of the building sector call for a role for government. 
1.5 BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE – MBIE’S STRATEGY FOR THE REGULATORY SYSTEM  
In 2020, MBIE launched its Building System Regulatory Strategy – Building for the Future, which sets out a vision for the 
future of building regulation over the next 10 to 15 years. The strategy has a focus on wider wellbeing outcomes – social, 
environmental, economic – and aims to get the system thinking beyond the ‘bricks and mortar’ of design and construction. 
It focuses on how MBIE’s regulatory role can contribute to addressing some of the big challenges the building system needs 
to overcome, such as skills shortages, environmental and climate impacts of the construction process, and the slow 
adoption of new technologies. 
The strategy will become more ambitious and future-oriented over time as it is developed in consultation with others 
operating across the system and through tracking progress.  
MBIE developed the Building for the Future Indicators Explorer – released publicly in 2021 – to track progress against the 
outcomes in the strategy and support prioritisation and decision making in its role as the central building regulator. 
 
 
 
9 Stats NZ (2021), Business Demography Statistics – February 2021. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
2. Scope and purpose of the building 
regulatory system  
2.1 NEW ZEALAND HAS A PERFORMANCE-BASED BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM 
The Building Act has two primary purposes: 
• 
The Building Act regulates building work, establishes the licensed building practitioner regime and enables 
performance standards to be set so that:  
o 
people who use buildings can do so safely and without endangering their health 
o 
buildings have attributes that contribute appropriately to the health, physical independence, and well-
being of the people who use them 
o 
people who use a building can escape from the building if it is on fire 
o 
buildings are designed, constructed, and able to be used in ways that promote sustainable 
development. 
• 
The Building Act promotes the accountability of owners, designers, builders, and BCAs – all of whom have 
responsibilities to ensure that building work complies with the Building Code. 
To achieve these objectives, building work must meet certain requirements set out in legislation and regulations. These 
requirements determine how work can be done, who can do it, and ensure that the system has adequate checks and 
consumer protection in place.  
The Building Code is the part of the system that sets expectations of the standards new buildings should meet. It covers 
aspects such as structural stability, durability, protection from fire, access, moisture control, services and facilities, and 
energy efficiency. These outline how a building must perform in its intended use rather than describing how the building 
must be designed and constructed. This performance-based approach allows development and innovation in building 
design, technology, and systems.  
Since the last charter in 2017, MBIE has put in place an annual maintenance programme to ensure effective management 
of the Building Code and its documents. This can include updates to the Building Code, Acceptable Solutions and 
Verification Methods and published guidance that provide pathways for complying with the regulations.  
Updating the Building Code regularly helps ensure it keeps pace with modern construction methods. Recent Building Code 
updates have included changes to support safer and more resilient housing foundations for buildings on liquefaction-prone 
ground; a focus on the solutions available for higher density housing; and changes to make new homes and buildings more 
energy efficient. 
2.2 THE BUILDING ACT CONTROLS BUILDING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION  
The Building Act applies mainly to the physical aspects of building work and establishes a framework for good decision-
making, with checks and balances at each stage of the building or alteration process. The Building Act provides for: 
• 
requirements relating to building work  
• 
the functions of MBIE, territorial authorities, councils, BCAs and their accreditation 
• 
licensing of building practitioners 
• 
mandatory contracts and implied warranties for the benefit of consumers 
• 
defined responsibilities for owners, designers, builders, and manufacturers/suppliers 
• 
guidance, information and education from the regulator. 
Figure 1 below sets out the key components of the building regulatory system and methods for demonstrating compliance: 
• 
Building Act – the primary legislation governing the building and construction industry. 
• 
Building Regulations 1992 – detail for particular building controls (eg prescribed forms; list of specified systems, 
definitions of 'change the use' and 'moderate earthquake'; levies, fees, and infringements).  
• 
Building Code – contained in Schedule 1 of the Building Regulations 1992, sets the minimum performance 
standards buildings must meet. 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Figure 1: Components of the building regulatory system 
 
 
 
The Building Act works alongside other legislation affecting the building and construction sector, including council bylaws 
and: 
• 
Chartered Professional Engineers of New Zealand Act 2002 
• 
Construction Contracts Act 2002 
• 
Electricity Act 1992 
• 
Engineering Associates Act 1961 
• 
Fire and Emergency New Zealand Act 2017 
• 
Plumbers, Gasfitters, and Drainlayers Act 2006 
• 
Registered Architects Act 2005 
• 
Resource Management Act 1991 
• 
Weathertight Homes Resolution Services Act 2006.  
2.3 DIFFERENT WAYS TO DEMONSTRATE COMPLIANCE WITH THE BUILDING CODE  
The building consent system is set up to ensure that building projects above a certain threshold of complexity and risk are 
undertaken in such a way that people’s health and safety is safeguarded. To issue a building consent, a BCA must be 
reasonably satisfied that the plans and specifications demonstrate compliance with the Building Code. Compliance may be 
demonstrated in a number of ways, set out in Figure 2. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Figure 2: Methods of demonstrating compliance with the Building Code 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Provide information about materials, construction details and calculation methods. 
• Must be accepted as complying with the related Building Code provisions. 
• Acceptable Solutions are specific construction methods.
• Verification Methods are methods for testing, calculation and measurement.
Acceptable Solution / Verification Method
• Innovative and unique products or systems with appropriate evidence to demonstrate 
compliance with clauses of the Building Code.
Alternative solution 
• Legally binding ruling made by MBIE about matters of doubt or dispute to do with 
building work.
Determination
•MBIE provides a voluntary product assurance scheme (CodeMark) which must be 
accepted as complying with the Building Code.
•MBIE provides a national multiple-use approval (MultiProof) which states that a set of 
plans and specifications for a building complies with the Building Code.
Product and Building Method assurance 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
3.  Roles within the regulatory system 
3.1 OVERVIEW OF BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM ROLES 
Figure 3 below provides an overview of the different roles in the regulatory system and who carries them out.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2 MBIE’S ROLES: STEWARD AND CENTRAL REGULATOR 
MBIE has the role of steward and central regulator of the building regulatory system. Its regulatory duties, powers, and 
functions are set out in the Building Act (and other legislation affecting the building and construction sector).  
MBIE is the lead policy advisor to government on the building regulatory system. It is responsible for advice on legislation 
and regulations, including the Building Code. The stewardship role requires MBIE to look across the system as a whole and 
provide advice on how to ensure the building regulatory system is high performing. 
 
 
MBIE
Steward & 
regulator
•System leadership 
and oversight
•Policy advice
•Setting performance 
requirements in the 
Building Code
•Producing guidance 
on ways to comply 
with the Building 
Code under Section 
175.
•Determinations
•Information, 
operational policy and 
education
•Licensing of some 
professions
•Building Emergency 
Management 
•Monitoring 
compliance 
•Regulatory 
performance 
Councils / BCAs
Regulator
•Day-to-day decision 
maker who 
determines 
whether building 
plans and building 
work comply with 
the Building Code
•Advice and 
guidance on 
systems and 
processes
•Record keeper
•Provision of 
property 
information
Professionals and tradespeople
Service provision
•Expert advice and 
consumer services, 
eg:
•Architects
•Designers
•Engineers
•Builders 
•Manufacturers & 
suppliers
•Fire and 
Emergency New 
Zealand
Registration boards
Supervision of 
professionals
•Licensed Building 
Practitioners
•Electrical workers
•Plumbers, gasfitters 
and drainlayers
•Registered 
architects
•Chartered 
professional 
engineers
•Engineering 
associates
Building owners – pay building levies, use the regulatory system  
New Zealand public – use the building stock 
Figure 3: Overview of roles within the building regulatory system 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
As the central regulator, MBIE manages the system that regulates building work. It is responsible for: 
• 
reviewing and maintaining building-related legislation and the Building Code  
• 
producing documents that show ways to comply with the Building Code 
• 
monitoring the performance of territorial authorities in the building regulatory system 
• 
investigating complaints against BCAs   
• 
making determinations about disputes on certain building matters 
• 
providing information, education and guidance about the building system 
• 
regulating aspects of some professions10 
• 
appointing to and monitoring statutory boards that regulate occupations in the building and construction sector. 
MBIE’s central regulator role is prescribed in the Building Act, detailed in Annex 1.  
MBIE works alongside building practitioners, government agencies, other regulators and the construction industry to 
understand what matters to the sector and to improve the regulatory system. 
MBIE’s regulatory and stewardship governance structures 
MBIE’s building regulatory system functions are located across two groups in MBIE - the Building, Resources and Markets 
Group and Te Whakatairanga Service Delivery Group - and delivered by a range of teams. The functions of each team work 
co-operatively with a whole-of-system view to support an integrated approach to building regulation and leverage the 
wide expertise across MBIE and the sector.  
Priority work programmes are governed through individual arrangements. Each priority work programme has a governance 
arrangement such as a steering group. These steering groups are made up of managers across the building system. 
Governance is provided by the Building System Steering Group (BSSG) comprising three general managers from the two 
MBIE groups (see above). It is chaired by the General Manager Building System Performance who is responsible for 
strategic oversight of the building regulatory system. A memorandum of understanding describes the working relationship 
between the building regulatory system functions across the groups, supported by a mutually-agreed operating model 
delivering the capacity and capability required to deliver a high performing building regulatory system.   
The BSSG is responsible for strategic oversight of system effectiveness through governance of the cross-group and branch 
relationships and an agreed building system work programme. Annually, the BSSG: 
• 
agrees a building system work programme and oversees progress 
• 
reviews the operating model to ensure it remains effective. 
Māori engagement approach 
Partnering and maintaining strong relationships is essential to providing the environment for meaningful participation by 
Māori in sector conversations and decision making. MBIE’s Māori engagement approach enables Māori to realise their own 
goals and aspirations as they relate to the building and construction system by: 
• 
working alongside Māori to understand the opportunities/challenges 
• 
creating and maintaining authentic and enduring partnerships with Māori through regular, meaningful engagement 
and conversations 
• 
engaging early on in policy development, procedures and services 
• 
valuing kaupapa Māori and understanding the importance when engaging with Māori  
• 
integrating te reo Māori and tikanga Māori into the building system staff’s ways of working to ensure engagement 
is appropriate, meaningful and respectful and staff are comfortable and confident to engage with Māori. 
MBIE review of regulatory stewardship practices 
An internal review of the regulatory stewardship practices across the building regulatory system was completed in late 
2020. The review was intended to identify where there are areas of strength in MBIE’s stewardship of the regulatory 
system and to identify where practices can be improved.  
It evaluated the maturity of the system and informs efforts to increase the maturity of practices over time. Work is 
underway to address the findings of this review, particularly with respect to three identified priorities areas – culture; 
governance, leadership and strategy; and insights and foresights. 
MBIE’s approach 
In exercising its roles, MBIE has four broad levers it uses: People, Processes, Products and Performance. Figure 4. outlines 
MBIE’s approach under these levers. 
 
10 Occupational regulation, including the Licensing Building Practitioners and Electrical Workers Licensing schemes. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Figure 4: MBIE’s approach using four broad levers. 
 
3.3 TERRITORIAL AUTHORITIES AND BCAS ARE THE FRONTLINE OF THE BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM  
Territorial authorities 
The Building Act requires territorial authorities to keep records about all properties in their area, issue project information 
memoranda and certificates of acceptance, monitor compliance schedules and follow up notices to fix.  
Territorial authorities also have powers to address breaches of the Building Act. They can issue infringement notices or, in 
some circumstances, organise for remedial work to be done. An owner applies to the territorial authority for a building 
consent. They are able to grant waivers and exemptions, as well as modifications of the Building Code.  
Territorial authorities also have a role in managing buildings in their area after an emergency event and managing 
earthquake-prone buildings in their area. Other functions include administering annual building warrants of fitness, 
deciding the extent to which buildings must comply with the Building Code, performing functions relating to dangerous or 
insanitary buildings, and responding to managing buildings in an emergency situation.  
•
Inform and educate building regulatory system participants about the system to assist people 
to carry out their duties or comply with their obligations.
•
Licence and administer other parts of the building regulatory system (eg the Licensed Building 
Practitioner scheme and the product certification scheme).
•
Monitor the performance and effectiveness of system participants using its intelligence 
function.
Workforce and People
•
Focus processes on users.
•
Base activities on robust information, analysis and informed judgements.
•
Provide advice, education and information to aid compliance and enforcement.
•
Review and monitor BCA and territorial authority performance of their functions under the 
Building Act.
•
Adjudicate disputes between individuals and BCAs via the determinations process.
Regulatory and Commercial Processes
•
Operate the warnings and bans processes.
•
Administer a product assurance scheme.
•
Foster innovation in building products. 
•
Ensure products are fit for purpose.
Products
•
Develop Acceptable Solutions and Verification Methods, which provide guidance on ways to 
comply with the Building Code.
•
Actively identify research needs and engage with research providers to ensure the most useful 
research is undertaken to inform performance expectations and compliance solutions.
•
Set criteria, supervise and monitor enforcement of the BCA in applying the Building Code to 
building work.
•
Review and monitor its own performance as regulator.
•
Provide advice, based on operational expertise, about how the overall regulatory system can be 
improved.
Performance Requirements

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
BCAs 
BCAs are responsible for:  
• 
checking that applications for building consents comply with the Building Code and issuing buildings consents  
• 
carrying out inspections to determine whether building work has been carried out in compliance with the consent 
and the Building Code, and issuing Code Compliance Certificates certifying this  
• 
issuing notices to fix, which require a person to remedy a breach of the Building Act or its regulations  
• 
compliance schedules. 
Most territorial authorities are BCAs. They may also contract these services out to other BCAs. Standards of performance 
are set out in the Building Act. These are currently assessed by International Accreditation New Zealand (IANZ) on behalf of 
MBIE. Kāinga Ora also has a non-territorial authority BCA called Consentium which provides building compliance services 
for state homes of up to four levels.  
3.4 BUILDING PROFESSIONALS AND TRADESPEOPLE 
Building professionals – such as designers, architects and engineers – are responsible for ensuring building plans and 
proposals comply with the Building Code.   
Building professionals and tradespeople ensure the building is built to any consented plans (including any subsequently 
approved variations). They are also responsible for ensuring that building work (whether a consent is required or not) will 
meet the requirements of the Building Code.   
Where it is reasonable to do so, builders also have a responsibility to identify that any consented plans do not meet the 
Building Code and take steps to ensure that this is addressed before proceeding with building work. 
3.5 PRODUCT MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERS 
Building product manufacturers or suppliers are responsible for making sure their products are fit for their purpose and for 
use in the New Zealand market.  
From December 2023, building product manufacturers and suppliers will have new legal obligations to make certain 
information about their products publicly available. This includes information about how the product will contribute to 
compliance with the Building Code and how it must be installed and maintained in order to perform as intended. These 
changes, made by the Building (Building Products and Methods, Modular Components, and Other Matters) Amendment 
Act 2021, will support homeowners, builders and building consent authorities to make better decisions about what 
products to use. 
3.6 BUILDING USERS AND BUILDING OWNERS 
The ultimate customer is the building user, who may also be the building owner. Building users – that is, the general public 
of New Zealand – have an expectation that buildings are safe to use. The building regulatory system is ultimately aimed at 
ensuring buildings are safe, healthy and durable, so that New Zealanders can have confidence in their performance. 
Building owners have a crucial role. They use the system and provide information on their experience. They generally pay 
the costs associated with producing and processing applications for building consents, and the costs associated with the 
inspection process and achieving a Code Compliance Certificate.  
Building owners also choose the building professionals and companies who carry out building work for them. This includes 
building work to deconstruct a building at the end of its life. 
Owners have an indirect influence on the performance of the BCAs, through submission of the consent application. They 
can influence the behaviour of those who submit applications for building consents as they are often the ones who bear 
the costs of delays, changes, and rework.  
Building owners are responsible for the ongoing maintenance to protect the building, their investment in it, and the 
appropriate safety for the people who live and work in those buildings. They are also responsible for building operation, 
which can result in variable carbon emissions and water usage. 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
4. Oversight, checks and balances 
The system is designed with checks and balances and a process for ensuring performance. That is, there is someone who is 
responsible for checking and verifying what has been done and helping ensure the various functions are delivered at an 
appropriate standard. 
Who or what 
How oversight is provided  
Minister 
Parliament / New Zealanders / Courts (judicial review). 
MBIE 
Minister. 
MBIE (as the policy agency responsible for the stewardship of the building regulatory 
system, including MBIE’s own specific regulatory role). 
Councils / 
territorial 
authorities / BCAs 
IANZ accredits BCA processes to ensure they conform to the expectations defined by 
MBIE as the regulator. IANZ monitors and assesses BCA performance.   
MBIE supervises IANZ as IANZ is MBIE’s agent. MBIE registers BCAs after 
accreditation has been given by IANZ. 
MBIE undertakes technical reviews of territorial authority functions under the 
Building Act. 
If there is a dispute about a BCA decision, those affected can seek a ’determination’ 
from MBIE. 
Building 
professionals 
(builders, 
architects, 
engineers, etc ) 
MBIE is responsible for setting occupational regulation policy. 
Six statutory bodies provide regulatory oversight of the various building and 
construction occupations that are regulated: engineers; architects; engineering 
associates; builders; electrical workers; and plumbers, gasfitters and drainlayers. 
MBIE administers the Licensed Building Practitioners scheme (via the Registrar of 
Licensed Building Practitioners), investigates complaints relating to Registered 
Electrical Workers, enforces offence provisions relating to unauthorised people 
carrying out restricted building work, and provides support services to both the 
Building Practitioners Board and the Electrical Workers Registration Board. 
Councils review applications and inspect work carried out under a building consent. 
Products & 
processes 
Suppliers / manufacturers produce (or get third parties to produce) a statement to 
attest to product performance, correct installation and maintenance requirements. 
Standards NZ, BRANZ, CodeMark providers and others provide attestation of 
performance / quality assurance / compliance. 
A large number of organisations provide research services (on products, processes, 
services). 
MBIE investigates complaints about substandard products. 
Note: It is not the role of a BCA to review products and processes other than in 
association with a specific building consent. 
The Building Amendment Act 2021 will bring in new responsibilities and functions for 
modular component and offsite manufacturers.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Annex 1: MBIE’s duties, powers and functions set out in the Building Act  
MBIE’s Role  
Meaning 
Must appoint the Building Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
and provide information about the Panel 
Must appoint a Building Advisory Panel and include 
information about the panel in the Ministry’s annual 
report. 
Must take all necessary steps to ensure 
implementation and administration of the Building 
Act and review as necessary 
A broad obligation to ensure the Building Act is 
implemented. Requires a review of the Building Act ‘when 
necessary’. 
Carries out any other functions and duties specified in 
the Building Act 
This is a ‘catch all provision’ and captures functions and 
duties listed in the Building Act, but not in section 11. 
Carries out any functions that are incidental and 
related to, or consequential upon, the functions set 
out 
This provision captures functions not specifically listed in 
the Building Act but are inferred. It is a ‘catch all 
provision’ that provides practical flexibility without 
broadening MBIE’s Chief Executive’s (CE's) functions.  
Issues Acceptable Solutions or Verification Methods 
and reviews those documents 
An Acceptable Solution or a Verification Method is issued 
by the CE for use in establishing compliance with the 
Building Code. 
Warns against or bans the use of particular building 
methods or products 
A warning or a ban can be issued if the CE considers on 
reasonable grounds that the use of a building method or 
product has resulted or is likely to result in a building or 
building work failing to comply with the Building Code. 
Determines applications for national multiple-use 
approvals 
A national multiple use approval establishes that the 
plans and specifications to which it relates comply with 
the Building Code. This is known as the MultiProof 
system. 
Specifies the kinds of applications for a building 
consent that must be provided to Fire and Emergency 
New Zealand under section 46 of the Building Act 
Allows the CE to determine the types of building consent 
applications that should be referred to Fire and 
Emergency New Zealand. 
Must monitor and report to Minister on current and 
emerging trends in building design 
Monitoring and reporting function on ‘emerging trends in 
building design, building technologies, and other factors’ 
that may affect the Building Code, Acceptable Solutions 
and Verification Methods, warnings and bans, guidance 
and other functions and powers. Requires an annual 
report. 
Publishes guidance information on the requirements 
of the Building Act and the Building Code 
Publishing guidance on the requirements of the Building 
Act and the Building Code provides information to the 
sector about what the requirements are and how to 
comply with the requirements. Guidance can be prepared 
more rapidly and be more specific to a situation than an 
Acceptable Solution or a Verification Method. 
Registers BCAs that have been accredited to allow 
them to perform functions under Parts 2 and 3 of the 
Building Act 
Registering a person (including a local council) as a BCA. 
Makes determinations 
A quasi-judicial function. Relates to whether a particular 
matter complies with the Building Code or the exercise or 
failure or refusal to exercise of a power of decision by an 
authority. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Reviews the operation of territorial authorities, 
regional authorities, and BCAs in relation to their 
functions under the Building Act 
In relation to territorial authorities the CE may review 
whether a territorial authority is properly performing its 
functions and duties or powers under the Building Act. 
Grants and revokes accreditation of BCAs or 
appoints a building consent accreditation body 
The CE must decide whether to grant or revoke 
accreditation of BCAs or appoint a person to be an 
accreditation body. Currently the CE has appointed IANZ 
to perform this role. 
Grants and revokes accreditation of dam owners or 
appoints a dam owner accreditation body to do so 
The CE must decide whether to grant or revoke 
accreditation of dam owners or appoint a person to be an 
accreditation body. 
Appoints a product certification accreditation body  
The CE may appoint a person as a product certification 
accreditation body. 
Disseminates information and provides 
educational programmes on matters relating to 
building control 
Disseminating information and providing educational 
programmes. 
Takes enforcement action (including taking 
proceedings for offences under the Building Act) if 
the CE considers it desirable to do so 
It is considered desirable to establish or clarify any matter 
of principle relating to building or the interpretation of 
the Building Act, if one or more territorial authorities are 
unwilling or unable to take action or to enforce 
obligations under Part 4A (Consumer rights and 
remedies) of the Building Act. 
Establishes and maintains several information 
registers  
The following registers must be established and 
maintained: 
- 
BCAs 
- 
Accredited dam owners 
- 
Accredited product certification bodies 
- 
Certified building methods or products. 
Appoints the Registrar  
The CE must appoint under the Public Service Act 2020 a 
Registrar of Licensed Building Practitioners. 
Prepares proposed rules  
Making rules relating to Licensed Building Practitioners 
including competence standards. 
Issues infringement notices and authorises persons 
to issue infringement notices 
Issuing of infringement notices. 
May provide dispute resolution services  
May provide services to assist in the resolution of any 
dispute arising under a residential building contract. 
Monitors the application and effectiveness of 
earthquake-prone buildings 
The CE is responsible for monitoring the application and 
effectiveness of earthquake-prone buildings. 
Oversees post-event assessments 
The CE approves the methodology in preparation for, and 
the form of notices, directions, and signs for post-event 
assessments. 
Investigation of building failures  
The CE is responsible for investigating building failures. 
Oversees qualified pool inspectors  
The CE accepts (and withdraws acceptance of) 
independently-qualified pool inspectors. 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
Annex 2: BCA and territorial authority duties, powers and functions set out in the Building Act 
Role 
Meaning 
BCAs 
Issues building consents, but not if a building 
consent is required to be subject to a waiver or 
modification of the Building Code 
All current registered BCAs are also territorial 
authorities, so the restriction does not apply. 
Inspects building work for which it has granted a 
building consent 
 
Issues notices to fix 
A notice to fix can be issued by either a BCA or 
territorial authority. 
Issues Code Compliance Certificates 
 
Issues compliance schedules 
Compliance schedules are issued by a BCA in 
association with a Code Compliance Certificate. 
Territorial authorities  
Performs the functions of a BCA set out in subsection 
(1)(a) (including the issue of building consents 
subject to a waiver or modification of the building 
code) of the Building Act if— 
(i) the territorial authority is also a BCA 
(ii) an owner applies to the territorial authority for a 
building consent 
I 
Issues project information memoranda 
Project information memoranda are optional; 
however, a majority of the same tasks must be 
undertaken by a territorial authority whether or not a 
project information memorandum is issued. 
Grants exemptions under Schedule 1 of the Building 
Act 
These are exemptions under Schedule 1 (2) of the 
Building Act where the territorial authority has 
discretion on whether specified work requires building 
consent. 
Grants waivers and modifications of the Building 
Code 
Provisions of the Building Code may be waived or 
modified by a territorial authority, excluding any that 
apply to access and facilities for people for disabilities. 
Issues certificates of acceptance 
A certificate of acceptance may be issued where a 
territorial authority believes that the work complies 
with the Building Code, even though a building consent 
has not been obtained. 
Issues and amends compliance schedules  
The territorial authority issues or amends a compliance 
schedule where there is no associated building 
consent. 
Administers annual building warrants of fitness 
 
Enforces the provisions relating to annual building 
warrants of fitness 
 
Decides the extent to which buildings must comply 
with the building code when— 
(i) they are altered; or 
(ii) their use is changed; or 
 
This is for the purposes of sections 112, 115, 116 and 
116A of the Building Act. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
14 
BUILDING REGULATORY SYSTEM CHARTER 2022 
(iii) their specified intended life changes 
Performs functions relating to dangerous, 
earthquake-prone, or insanitary buildings 
 
Carries out any other functions and duties specified 
in this Act 
This is a ‘catch all provision’ and captures functions 
and duties listed in the Building Act, but not in section 
12. This can include for example, issue of a notice to fix 
for matters other than building consent related work. 
Carries out any functions that are incidental and 
related to, or consequential upon, the functions set 
out in paragraphs (a) to (k) 
This is a ‘catch all provision’ and captures functions 
and duties not specifically listed in the Building Act but 
are inferred. 
 
Note: Regional authorities also have duties, functions and powers in relation to dams under the Building Act that are not 
listed in this document.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
