1 
Act on Building Unit Ownership 
 
(Act No. 69 of April 4, 1962) 
 
Chapter I Building Unit Ownership 
Section 1 General Provisions (Articles 1 through 10) 
Section 2 Common Areas (Articles 11 through 21) 
Section 3 Right to Use the Grounds (Articles 22 through 24) 
Section 4 Managers (Articles 25 through 29) 
Section 5 Bylaws and Meetings (Articles 30 through 46) 
Section 6 Incorporated Management Associations (Articles 47 through 56-7) 
Section 7 Measures Against Persons Who Violate Their Obligations (Articles 
57 through 60) 
Section 8 Restoration and Reconstruction (Articles 61 through 64) 
Chapter II Housing Complexes (Articles 65 through 70) 
Chapter III Penal Provisions (Article 71 and Article 72) 
Supplementary Provisions 
 
Chapter I Building Unit Ownership 
Section 1 General Provisions 
 
(Building Unit Ownership) 
Article 1  If there are multiple portions into which a single building is 
structurally divided that can be used as independent residences, stores, offices, 
warehouses, or other buildings, each of those portions may be made the subject 
of ownership, pursuant to the provisions of this Act. 
 
(Definitions) 
Article 2  (1) The term "unit ownership" as used in this Act means ownership 
whose subject is a portion of a building provided for in the preceding Article 
(excluding a portion that has been established as a common area pursuant to 
the provisions of Article 4, paragraph (2)). 
(2) The term "unit owner" as used in this Act means a person with unit 
ownership. 
(3) The term "exclusively-owned area" as used in this Act means a portion of a 
building that is the subject of unit ownership. 
(4) The term "common area" as used in this Act means a portion of a building 
that is not an exclusively-owned area; an appurtenance to a building that is 
not a part of an exclusively-owned area; or an attached building that has been 
established as a common area pursuant to the provisions of Article 4, 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 
paragraph (2). 
(5) The term "grounds of a building" or "building's grounds" as used in this Act 
means the land on which a building is located and the land that has been 
established as part of the grounds of the building pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 5, paragraph (1). 
(6) The term "right to use the grounds" as used in this Act means the rights 
associated with the grounds of a building due to ownership of an exclusively-
owned area. 
 
(Association of Unit Owners) 
Article 3  All of the unit owners together may organize an association to manage 
the building, its grounds, and its attached facilities and, pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act, may hold meetings, establish bylaws, and appoint a 
manager. The same applies if a common area that should clearly be available 
for the common use of only some of the unit owners (hereinafter referred to as 
a "private common area") is managed by those unit owners. 
 
(Common Areas) 
Article 4  (1) A corridor or staircase leading to multiple exclusively-owned areas, 
or any other portion of the building that, due to its structure, should be 
available for the common use of all or some of the unit owners, is not to be 
made the object of unit ownership. 
(2) The bylaws may establish that a portion of a building or an attached building 
provided for in Article 1 is a common area. In such a case, that portion of the 
building or that attached building may not be asserted against a third party as 
a common area unless it has been registered as such. 
 
(Specification of the Grounds of the Building by the Bylaws) 
Article 5  (1) The bylaws may establish that a garden, passage, or other land 
managed or used by a unit owner as an integral part of the building or of the 
land on which the building is located is part of the grounds of the building. 
(2) If land on which a building is located has become land that does not 
constitute that on which the building is located due to the partial destruction 
of the building, it is deemed to have been established as the grounds of the 
building by the bylaws pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The same applies if part of the land on which a building is located has become 
land that does not constitute that on which the building is located due to the 
division of the land. 
 
(Rights and Obligations of Unit Owners) 
Article 6  (1) A unit owner must not perform an act that is harmful to the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 
preservation of the building or any other act that goes against the common 
interest of the unit owners in connection with the management or use of the 
building. 
(2) Within the scope necessary to preserve or improve an exclusively-owned area 
or a common area, a unit owner may request to use the exclusively-owned area 
of another unit owner or to use a common area not under their ownership. In 
such a case, if another unit owner incurs damage, the requesting unit owner 
must pay them compensation. 
(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) apply mutatis mutandis to a possessor of an 
exclusively-owned area who is not a unit owner (hereinafter referred to as the 
"possessor"). 
(4) The provisions of Article 264-8 and Article 264-14 of the Civil Code (Act No. 
89 of 1896) do not apply to exclusively-owned areas and common areas. 
 
(Statutory Liens) 
Article 7  (1) A unit owner holds a statutory lien on the debtor's unit ownership 
(including the rights related to the common areas and the right to use the 
grounds) and on the movables with which they have furnished the building in 
connection with a claim that involves a common area, the grounds of the 
building, or attached facilities of the building other than a common area, or in 
connection with a claim that the unit holder holds against another unit owner 
based on the bylaws or a meeting resolution. The same applies to a claim that 
the manager or incorporated management association holds against a unit 
owner and that involves the manager's or association's performance of their 
duties or work. 
(2) The statutory lien referred to in the preceding paragraph is deemed to be a 
statutory lien on the expenses for common benefits in terms of its order of 
priority and its effect. 
(3) The provisions of Article 319 of the Civil Code apply mutatis mutandis to the 
statutory lien referred to in paragraph (1). 
 
(Liability of a Specific Successor) 
Article 8  The claims provided for in paragraph (1) of the preceding Article may 
be exercised against the specific successor of the unit owner who is the debtor. 
 
(Presumption on Defects in the Erection or Preservation of Buildings) 
Article 9  If a defect in the erection or preservation of a building has caused 
damage to other persons, the defect is presumed to exist in the erection or 
preservation of the common areas. 
 
(Right to Demand the Sale and Transfer of Unit Ownership) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 
Article 10  If there is a unit owner who does not have the right to use the 
grounds, a person who has the right to request the removal of the owner's 
exclusively-owned area may request that the owner should sell and transfer 
their unit ownership at its market value. 
 
Section 2 Common Areas 
 
(Co-ownership of Common Areas) 
Article 11  (1) Common areas are co-owned by all the unit owners; provided, 
however, that a private common area is co-owned by the unit owners who 
should have common use of it. 
(2) The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not preclude any provisions to 
the contrary in the bylaws; provided, however, that except in the case referred 
to in Article 27, paragraph (1), a person other than a unit owner may not be 
established as an owner of a common area. 
(3) The provisions of Article 177 of the Civil Code do not apply to a common area. 
 
Article 12  If a common area is co-owned by some or all of the unit owners, co-
ownership of that common area is governed by the provisions of the following 
Article through Article 19. 
 
(Use of Common Areas) 
Article 13  Each co-owner may use a common area in accordance with the 
purpose of its use. 
 
(Proportion of Shares in a Common Area) 
Article 14  (1) Each co-owner's share in a common area is proportionate to the 
floor area of the exclusively-owned area the co-owner owns. 
(2) The preceding paragraph being the case, if a private common area (excluding 
one that is an attached building) has a floor area, the floor area of that private 
common area is to be divided in proportion to the floor area of the exclusive 
area held by each unit owner who should have common use of that private 
common area, and this is to be included in the calculation of the floor area of 
each unit owner's exclusively-owned area. 
(3) The floor area referred to in the preceding two paragraphs is calculated as the 
horizontally projected area of the part that is bounded by the inner lines of the 
walls and other partitions. 
(4) The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs do not preclude any 
provisions to the contrary in the bylaws. 
 
(Disposal of Shares in a Common Area) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5 
Article 15  (1) A co-owner's share in a common area follows any disposition of the 
exclusively-owned area they own. 
(2) Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, a co-owner may not dispose of their 
share separately from the exclusively-owned area they own. 
 
(Management of a Private Common Area) 
Article 16  The part of the management of a private common area that is related 
to the interests of all unit owners or that is provided for in the bylaws under 
Article 31, paragraph (2) is carried out by all unit owners, and all other 
management of that private common area is carried out only by the unit 
owners who should have common use of it. 
 
(Changes to a Common Area) 
Article 17  (1) Changes to a common area (excluding those that do not involve 
significant changes to the shape or function of a common area) are decided by 
resolution at a meeting, by at least a three-fourths majority of the unit owners 
and a three-fourths majority of the votes; provided, however, that the quorum 
of unit owners may be reduced to a one-half majority by the bylaws. 
(2) In the case referred to in the preceding paragraph, if the changes to the 
common area will have a particular influence on the use of an exclusively-
owned area, the approval of the owner of that exclusively-owned area must be 
obtained. 
 
(Management of Common Areas) 
Article 18  (1) Except in the case referred to in the preceding Article, matters 
concerning the management of the common areas may be decided by resolution 
at a meeting; provided, however, that each co-owner may perform an act of 
preservation. 
(2) The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not preclude any provisions to 
the contrary in the bylaws. 
(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) of the preceding Article apply mutatis 
mutandis pursuant to the case referred to in the main clause of paragraph (1). 
(4) Entering into a non-life insurance contract for a common area is deemed to be 
a matter that concerns the management of the common areas. 
 
(Burdens and Collection of Profits from Common Areas) 
Article 19  Each co-owner assumes the burdens of the common areas and collects 
profits arising from the common areas in proportion to their share, except as 
otherwise provided for in the bylaws. 
 
(Authority of the Managing Owner) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6 
Article 20  (1) The unit owner specified as the owner of a common area by the 
bylaws pursuant to the provisions of Article 11, paragraph (2) assumes the 
obligation of managing the common area for the benefit of all the unit owners 
(or, if applicable, for the benefit of all the unit owners who should have 
common use of the private common area). This being the case, that unit owner 
may request reasonable management expenses from the relevant unit owners. 
(2) The owner of a common area referred to in the preceding paragraph may not 
make changes to a common area prescribed in Article 17, paragraph (1). 
 
(Application Mutatis Mutandis of Provisions Concerning Common Areas) 
Article 21  If the grounds of the building or attached facilities not constituting a 
common area (including rights related to the grounds or facilities) is co-owned 
by unit owners, the provisions of Articles 17 through 19 apply mutatis 
mutandis to the grounds or attached facilities. 
 
Section 3 Right to Use the Grounds 
 
(Prohibition of Separate Disposition) 
Article 22  (1) If the right to use the grounds is a right of ownership or other such 
right that is held by multiple persons, a unit owner may not dispose of their 
exclusively-owned area separately from the right to use the grounds that is 
connected with their exclusively-owned area; provided, however, that this does 
not apply if otherwise provided for in the bylaws. 
(2) In the case referred to in the main clause of the preceding paragraph, if the 
unit owner holds two or more exclusively-owned areas, the proportion of the 
right to use the grounds for each exclusively-owned area is to be based on the 
proportion specified in Article 14, paragraphs (1) through (3); provided, 
however, that if a proportion different from this proportion is specified in the 
bylaws, the right to use the grounds for each exclusively-owned area is to be 
based on that proportion. 
(3) The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs apply mutatis mutandis if the 
right to use the grounds that is held by the person who owns all the 
exclusively-owned areas in the building is an ownership right or any other such 
right that is held by a single person. 
 
(Limitations on Claims of Invalidity of Separate Disposition) 
Article 23  The invalidity of a disposition of an exclusively-owned area or of the 
right to use the grounds that is in violation of the provisions of the main clause 
of paragraph (1) of the preceding Article (including as applied mutatis 
mutandis pursuant to paragraph (3) of that Article), may not be asserted 
against the other party if they acted in good faith; provided, however, that this 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7 
does not apply if the exclusively-owned areas and the right to use the grounds 
are disposed of after it has been registered that they may not be disposed of 
separately, as provided for in the Real Property Registration Act (Act No. 123 
of 2004). 
 
(Exclusion from Application of Article 255 of the Civil Code) 
Article 24  In the case referred to in the main clause of Article 22, paragraph (1), 
the provisions of Article 255 of the Civil Code (including as applied mutatis 
mutandis pursuant to Article 264 of that Act) do not apply to the right to use 
the grounds. 
 
Section 4 Managers 
 
(Appointment and Dismissal) 
Article 25  (1) Except as otherwise provided for in the bylaws, the unit owners 
may appoint or dismiss a manager by resolution at a meeting. 
(2) If the manager has committed a wrongful act or if there are other 
circumstances due to which it is not suitable for them to carry out their duties, 
each of the unit owners may file a request with the court for the dismissal of 
that manager. 
 
(Authority) 
Article 26  (1) The manager has the right and the obligation to preserve the 
common areas and to preserve the building's grounds and attached facilities in 
the case prescribed in Article 21 (each of these is referred to as a "common area 
or co-owned grounds or attached facilities" in the following paragraph and 
Article 47, paragraph (6)), to implement meeting resolutions, and to engage in 
the acts specified in the bylaws. 
(2) The manager acts as the unit owners' agent in matters connected with 
managerial duties. The same applies for claims for and the receipt of insurance 
money based on a non-life insurance contract under the provisions of Article 18, 
paragraph (4) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 21) 
as well as requests for and the receipt of compensation for damages arising in 
connection with a common area or co-owned grounds or attached facilities and 
monies to be returned due to unjust enrichment. 
(3) A limitation on a manager's authority to act as agent may not be asserted 
against a third party in good faith. 
(4) Pursuant to the provisions of the bylaws or meeting resolutions, the manager 
may be named as plaintiff or defendant for a unit owner, in connection with 
their duties (including the matters prescribed in the second sentence of 
paragraph (2)). 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8 
(5) If the manager has been named as plaintiff or defendant pursuant to the 
bylaws under the preceding paragraph, they must notify the unit owner of this 
without delay. In such a case, the provisions of Article 35, paragraphs (2) 
through (4) apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
(Administrative Ownership) 
Article 27  (1) The manager may own common areas if there are special 
provisions in the bylaws permitting this. 
(2) The provisions of Article 6, paragraph (2) and Article 20 apply mutatis 
mutandis to the case referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
 
(Application Mutatis Mutandis of Provisions on Delegation) 
Article 28  Beyond what is prescribed in this Act and in the bylaws, the rights 
and obligations of a manager are governed by the provisions on delegation. 
 
(Liability of Unit Owners) 
Article 29  (1) The proportion of liability that a unit owner assumes in connection 
with the acts the manager has performed with a third party within the scope of 
their duties is the same as the proportion specified in Article 14; provided, 
however, that if the bylaws have specified a proportion for sharing in the 
expenses necessary for the management of the building, its grounds, and its 
attached facilities, the proportion of liability is to be based on that proportion. 
(2) A claim that a third party holds against a unit owner due to an act under the 
preceding paragraph may be brought against the specific successor of the unit 
owner. 
 
Section 5 Bylaws and Meetings 
 
(Matters Provided for in Bylaws) 
Article 30  (1) Beyond what is provided for in this Act, the bylaws may provide 
for matters among the unit owners that concern the management or use of a 
building or its grounds or attached facilities. 
(2) Matters concerning a private common area that do not affect the interests of 
all of the unit owners may be provided for in the bylaws of the unit owners who 
are to have common use of that area, unless these are provided for in the 
bylaws of all the unit owners. 
(3) The bylaws prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs must be established 
in a manner that ensures equity in the interests among unit owners by 
comprehensively taking into consideration the shapes, areas, positional 
relationships, purpose of use, and status of use, as well as the price paid by 
each unit owner and any other circumstances concerning the exclusively-owned 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9 
areas, common areas, or grounds or attached facilities of the building 
(including rights related to the grounds or attached facilities). 
(4) In the cases referred to in paragraph (1) and paragraph (2), the bylaws may 
not prejudice the rights of persons other than unit owners. 
(5) The bylaws must be prepared in writing or by means of electronic or magnetic 
records (meaning a record that is created in an electronic format, a magnetic 
format, or any other format that cannot be perceived by the human senses, and 
that is specified by Ministry of Justice Order as being used in computerized 
information processing; the same applies hereinafter). 
 
(Establishment, Amendment, and Repeal of Bylaws) 
Article 31  (1) The establishment, amendment, or repeal of the bylaws is effected 
by resolution at a meeting, by at least a three-fourths majority of the unit 
owners and a three-fourths majority of the votes. In such a case, if the 
establishment, amendment, or repeal of the bylaws will have a special 
influence on the rights of some unit owners, their approval must be obtained. 
(2) The establishment, amendment, or repeal of the bylaws of all the unit owners 
concerning a matter prescribed in paragraph (2) of the preceding Article may 
not be effected if more than one-fourth of the unit owners who should have 
common use of the private common area or persons who hold more than one-
fourth of the voting rights connected with the private common area oppose the 
establishment, amendment, or repeal. 
 
(Establishment of Bylaws by Notarial Deed) 
Article 32  A person who initially owns all the exclusively-owned areas of a 
building may establish the bylaws under Article 4, paragraph (2), Article 5, 
paragraph (1), the proviso to Article 22, paragraph (1), and the proviso to 
paragraph (2) of that Article (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant 
to paragraph (3) of that Article) by a notarial deed. 
 
(Retention and Inspection of the Bylaws) 
Article 33  (1) The bylaws must be retained by the manager; provided, however, 
that if there is no manager, the bylaws must be retained by a unit owner who 
is using the building or their agent who has been specified in the bylaws or by 
meeting resolution. 
(2) If the person who has retained the bylaws pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph receives a request from an interested party, the person 
must not refuse to allow them to inspect the bylaws (or, if the bylaws have 
been prepared in the form of electronic or magnetic records, to inspect the 
content of the data recorded in the electronic or magnetic records, displayed in 
a means that is specified by Ministry of Justice Order at the place where the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10 
bylaws are retained), unless there are legitimate grounds for doing so. 
(3) The place where the bylaws are retained must be posted somewhere 
conspicuous within the building. 
 
(Convocation of Meetings) 
Article 34  (1) Meetings are to be convened by the manager. 
(2) The manager must convene a meeting at least once a year. 
(3) One-fifth or more of the unit owners who hold at least one-fifth of all of the 
voting rights may indicate a subject matter for a meeting and request that the 
manager convene one; provided, however, that this quorum may be reduced by 
the bylaws. 
(4) If a request under the preceding paragraph has been made, but, within two 
weeks, the manager does not send any convocation notice for a meeting setting 
a day within four weeks from the request date as the date of the meeting, the 
unit owners who made the request may convene a meeting. 
(5) If there is no manager, one-fifth or more of the unit owners who hold at least 
one-fifth of all the voting rights may convene a meeting; provided, however, 
that this quorum may be reduced by the bylaws. 
 
(Convocation Notice) 
Article 35  (1) The convocation notice for a meeting must indicate the subject 
matter of the meeting and be sent to each unit owner at least one week prior to 
the date of the meeting; provided, however that this period may be extended or 
reduced by the bylaws. 
(2) If an exclusively-owned area is under the co-ownership of multiple persons, it 
is sufficient to send the notice under the preceding paragraph to the person 
whom it has been decided will exercise their voting rights (or to one of the co-
owners, if there is no such person) pursuant to the provisions of Article 40. 
(3) It is sufficient to send the notice under paragraph (1) to the place where the 
unit owner has notified the manager that they will receive notices, and if the 
unit owner has not notified the manager of such a place, to the place where the 
exclusively-owned area owned by the unit owner is located. In such a case, the 
notice under that paragraph is deemed to have arrived at the time when the 
notice should have normally arrived. 
(4) If a special provision is provided in the bylaws, the notice under paragraph 
(1) may be given to a unit owner whose address is in the building, or to a unit 
owner who has not notified the manager of the place where they are to receive 
notices under the preceding paragraph, by posting the notice somewhere 
conspicuous within the building. In such a case, the notice under paragraph (1) 
is deemed to have arrived at the time when the notice is posted. 
(5) If a notice referred to in paragraph (1) is given, and the subject matter of the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11 
meeting is a matter for a resolution provided for in Article 17, paragraph (1), 
Article 31, paragraph (1), Article 61, paragraph (5), Article 62, paragraph (1), 
Article 68, paragraph (1), or Article 69, paragraph (7), each unit owner must 
also be notified of an outline of the proposal. 
 
(Omission of Convocation Procedures) 
Article 36  If all of the unit owners have given their consent, a meeting may be 
held without going through convocation procedures. 
 
(Limitation on Matters for Resolution) 
Article 37  (1) Only a matter for which notice has been given in advance pursuant 
to the provisions of Article 35 may be voted on as a resolution at a meeting. 
(2) The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not preclude any provisions to 
the contrary in the bylaws, except for matters concerning which this Act 
prescribes a special quorum for meeting resolutions. 
(3) The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs do not apply to a meeting 
under the provisions of the preceding Article. 
 
(Voting Rights) 
Article 38  The voting rights of each unit owner are to be in accordance with the 
proportion specified in Article 14, except as otherwise provided for in the 
bylaws. 
 
(Decisions) 
Article 39  (1) A meeting's decisions are to be decided by a majority of the unit 
owners and with a majority of the votes, except as otherwise provided for in 
this Act or in the bylaws. 
(2) Voting rights may be exercised in writing or by proxy. 
(3) A unit owner may exercise their voting rights by electronic or magnetic means 
(meaning the means of using an electronic data processing system or of making 
use of information and communications technology that is specified by Ministry 
of Justice Order; the same applies hereinafter) in lieu of exercising their voting 
rights in writing as provided for in the preceding paragraph, pursuant to the 
bylaws or a meeting resolution. 
 
(Designation of a Person to Exercise Voting Rights) 
Article 40  If an exclusively-owned area is co-owned by multiple persons, the co-
owners must decide upon one person who will exercise their voting rights. 
 
(Chairperson) 
Article 41  The manager or one of the unit owners who convened the meeting is 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12 
to serve as the chairperson at the meeting, unless otherwise provided for in the 
bylaws or if it has been otherwise resolved. 
 
(Minutes) 
Article 42  (1) The chairperson must prepare minutes of the proceedings of a 
meeting in writing or in the form of electronic or magnetic records. 
(2) An outline of the proceedings of the meeting and their results must be entered 
or recorded in the minutes. 
(3) In the case referred to in the preceding paragraph, if the minutes have been 
prepared in writing, the chairperson and two unit owners who attended the 
meeting must sign them. 
(4) In the case referred to in paragraph (2), if the minutes have been prepared in 
the form of electronic or magnetic records, measures specified by Ministry of 
Justice Order that are used in place of signatures and that are implemented by 
the chairperson and two unit owners who attended the meeting must be taken 
for the data recorded in the electronic or magnetic records. 
(5) The provisions of Article 33 apply mutatis mutandis to the minutes. 
 
(Report of Administrative Affairs) 
Article 43  A manager must report on their administrative affairs at a meeting, 
at a certain time once a year. 
 
(Possessors' Right to State Their Opinions) 
Article 44  (1) If a person who has possession of an exclusively-owned area with 
the consent of the unit owner holds an interest in the subject matter of the 
meeting, the person may attend the meeting and state their opinion. 
(2) In the case prescribed in the preceding paragraph, the person who convened 
the meeting must post the date and place of the meeting and the subject matter 
of the meeting somewhere conspicuous within the building without delay after 
sending the convocation notice pursuant to the provisions of Article 35. 
 
(Resolutions Decided on in Writing or by Electronic or Magnetic Means) 
Article 45  (1) If a resolution is required to be voted on at a meeting pursuant to 
the provisions of this Act or the bylaws and if all of the unit owners consent, 
the resolution may be voted on either in writing or by electronic or magnetic 
means; provided, however, that the consent of the unit owners concerning a 
resolution voted on by electronic or magnetic means must be obtained pursuant 
to the provisions of Ministry of Justice Order. 
(2) If all of the unit owners agree unanimously in writing or by electronic or 
magnetic means, a matter that was required to have been decided by a 
resolution voted on at a meeting pursuant to the provisions of this Act or the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13 
bylaws, is deemed to have been decided by a resolution voted on in writing or 
by electronic or magnetic means. 
(3) A resolution that has been voted on in writing or by electronic or magnetic 
means concerning a matter that was required to have been decided by a 
resolution voted on at a meeting pursuant to the provisions of this Act or the 
bylaws has the same effect as a meeting resolution. 
(4) The provisions of Article 33 apply mutatis mutandis to documents related to a 
resolution voted on in writing or by electronic or magnetic means, and to the 
electronic or magnetic records that are prepared by electronic or magnetic 
means in a case in which the electronic or magnetic means referred to in 
paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) are used. 
(5) The provisions concerning meetings apply mutatis mutandis to resolutions 
voted on in writing or by electronic or magnetic means. 
 
(Effects of Bylaws and Meeting Resolutions) 
Article 46  (1) Bylaws and meeting resolutions also become effective against the 
specific successor of a unit owner. 
(2) A possessor has the same obligations as the obligations that the unit owners 
have based on the bylaws or meeting resolutions, as it concerns the way in 
which the possessor uses the building, its grounds, or its attached facilities. 
 
Section 6 Incorporated Management Associations 
 
(Establishment) 
Article 47  (1) The association prescribed in Article 3 becomes a corporation by 
deciding that it is to become a corporation and its name and office through a 
meeting resolution adopted by at least a three-fourths majority of the unit 
owners and a three-fourths majority of the votes, and by making a registration 
in the locality of its principal office. 
(2) A corporation under the provisions of the preceding paragraph is called an 
"incorporated management association". 
(3) Beyond what is provided for in this Act, Cabinet Order prescribes the 
necessary matters for the registration of an incorporated management 
association. 
(4) A matter that is required to be registered for an incorporated management 
association may not be asserted against a third party until after it has been 
registered. 
(5) The meeting resolutions, the bylaws, and the acts performed within the scope 
of the duties of a manager before the establishment of an incorporated 
management association, become effective against the incorporated 
management association. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
14 
(6) An incorporated management association acts as the unit owners' agent in 
matters connected with its administrative affairs. The same applies for claims 
for and the receipt of insurance money based on a non-life insurance contract 
under the provisions of Article 18, paragraph (4) (including as applied mutatis 
mutandis pursuant to Article 21), as well as requests for and the receipt of 
compensation for damages arising in connection with a common area or co-
owned grounds or attached facilities and monies to be returned due to unjust 
enrichment. 
(7) A limitation on an incorporated management association's authority to act as 
agent may not be asserted against a third party in good faith. 
(8) Pursuant to the provisions of the bylaws or meeting resolutions, an 
incorporated management association may be named as plaintiff or defendant 
for a unit owner, in connection with its administrative affairs (including the 
matters prescribed in the second sentence of paragraph (6)). 
(9) If the incorporated management association has been named as a plaintiff or 
defendant pursuant to the bylaws under the preceding paragraph, it must 
notify the unit owners of this without delay. In such a case, the provisions of 
Article 35, paragraphs (2) through (4) apply mutatis mutandis. 
(10) The provisions of Article 4 and Article 78 of the Act on General Incorporated 
Associations and General Incorporated Foundations (Act No. 48 of 2006) apply 
mutatis mutandis to an incorporated management association, and the 
provisions of Article 16, paragraph (2) of the Bankruptcy Act (Act No. 75 of 
2004) apply mutatis mutandis to an existing incorporated management 
association. 
(11) The provisions of Section 4 and the proviso to Article 33, paragraph (1) 
(including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 42, paragraph (5) 
and Article 45, paragraph (4)) do not apply to an incorporated management 
association. 
(12) When the provisions of the main clause of Article 33, paragraph (1) 
(including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 42, paragraph (5) 
and Article 45, paragraph (4); hereinafter the same applies in this paragraph) 
apply to an incorporated management association, the term "by the manager" 
in the main clause of Article 33, paragraph (1) is deemed to be replaced with 
"by the director at the office of an incorporated management association", and 
when the provisions of Article 34, paragraphs (1) through (3) and paragraph (5), 
Article 35, paragraph (3), Article 41, and Article 43 apply, the term "manager" 
in those provisions is deemed to be replaced with "director". 
(13) To apply the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act (Act No. 34 of 1965) and 
other laws and regulations related to corporation tax, an incorporated 
management association is deemed to be a corporation in the public interest, 
etc. prescribed in Article 2, item (vi) of that Act. This being the case, when the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
15 
provisions of Article 37 of that Act apply, the phrase "corporation in the public 
interest, etc. (excluding" in Article 37, paragraph (4) of that Act is deemed to 
be replaced with "corporation in the public interest, etc. (excluding an 
incorporated management association"; and when the provisions of Article 66 
of that Act apply, the term "ordinary corporation" in paragraph (1) of Article 66 
of that Act is deemed to be replaced with "ordinary corporation (including an 
incorporated management association)", the phrase "excluding a mutual 
company as prescribed in the Insurance Business Act" in paragraph (2) of that 
Article is deemed to be replaced with "excluding a mutual company as 
prescribed in the Insurance Business Act, and including an incorporated 
management association", and the phrase "corporation in the public interest, 
etc. (excluding" in Article 66, paragraph (3) of the Act is deemed to be replaced 
with "corporation in the public interest, etc. (excluding an incorporated 
management association and". 
(14) To apply the provisions of the Consumption Tax Act (Act No. 108 of 1988) 
and other laws and regulations related to consumption tax, an incorporated 
management association is deemed to be a corporation set forth in the 
Appended Table No. 3 of that Act. 
 
(Name) 
Article 48  (1) An incorporated management association must use the characters 
"管理組合法人" [transliterated as "kanri-kumiai-houjin" and meaning 
"incorporated management association"] in its name. 
(2) No person other than an incorporated management association may use the 
characters "管理組合法人" [transliterated as "kanri-kumiai-houjin" and 
meaning "incorporated management association"] in its name. 
 
(Inventory of Assets and Register of Unit Owners) 
Article 48-2  (1) An incorporated management association must prepare an 
inventory of assets at the time of its establishment and also annually at a time 
between January and March, and must keep this at its principal office at all 
times; provided, however, that if an incorporated management association 
expressly establishes a business year, it must prepare an inventory of assets at 
the time of its establishment and at the end of each business year. 
(2) An incorporated management association must keep a register of unit owners 
and make the necessary changes to the register whenever there is a change in 
the unit owners. 
 
(Directors) 
Article 49  (1) An incorporated management association must have a director. 
(2) If there are multiple directors, an incorporated management association's 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
16 
administrative affairs are decided by the majority of the directors, unless 
otherwise provided for in the bylaws. 
(3) The director acts as the representative of the incorporated management 
association. 
(4) If there are multiple directors, each director acts as a representative of the 
incorporated management association. 
(5) The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not preclude an incorporated 
management association from designating a director to act as the incorporated 
management association's representative or from providing for multiple 
directors to jointly act as the incorporated management association's 
representatives in its bylaws or by resolution at a meeting, or from specifying 
that the director who is to act as the incorporated management association's 
representative is to be chosen by the election of a director by and from among 
the directors themselves under the provisions of the bylaws. 
(6) The director's term of office is to be two years; provided, however, that if the 
bylaws specify a different period of no longer than three years, that period is to 
be the director's term of office. 
(7) If there is a vacancy in the office of a director, or a shortfall in the number of 
directors as specified in the bylaws, a director who has retired due to 
expiration of their term of office or has resigned from their office is to perform 
the duties of a director until a newly appointed director (including a 
provisional director referred to in Article 49-4, paragraph (1)) assumes office. 
(8) The provisions of Article 25 apply mutatis mutandis to a director. 
 
(Director's Authority to Act as Agent) 
Article 49-2  A limitation on a director's authority to act as agent may not be 
asserted against a third party in good faith. 
 
(Delegation of Director's Authority for Acts as Agent) 
Article 49-3  A director may delegate their authority to undertake a specific act 
as an agent to other persons, but only if that delegation is not prohibited by the 
bylaws or a meeting resolution. 
 
(Provisional Director) 
Article 49-4  (1) If there is a vacancy in the office of a director and damage is 
likely to occur due to a delay in administrative affairs, the court must appoint 
a provisional director, at the request of an interested person or the public 
prosecutor. 
(2) Cases concerning the appointment of a provisional director are to be subject 
to the jurisdiction of the district court with jurisdiction in the locality of the 
incorporated management association's principal office. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
17 
 
(Auditor) 
Article 50  (1) An incorporated management association is to have an auditor. 
(2) An auditor may not concurrently hold the position of the director or employee 
of an incorporated management association. 
(3) The duties of an auditor are as follows: 
(i) auditing the financial status of the incorporated management association; 
(ii) auditing the execution of duties by the directors; 
(iii) giving reports to the meeting if the auditor finds a violation of laws and 
regulations or the bylaws, or a significant impropriety, with respect to the 
financial status or the execution of duties; and 
(iv) convening a meeting if it is necessary for the auditor to give a report 
referred to in the preceding item. 
(4) The provisions of Article 25, Article 49, paragraph (6) and paragraph (7), and 
the preceding Article apply mutatis mutandis to an auditor. 
 
(Auditor's Authority to Act as Representative) 
Article 51  The auditor represents an incorporated management association in 
connection with a matter involving a conflict of interest between an 
incorporated management association and directors. 
 
(Execution of Administrative Affairs) 
Article 52  (1) Beyond what is provided for in this Act, all administrative affairs 
of an incorporated management association are carried out based on meeting 
resolutions; provided, however, that except for matters concerning which this 
Act prescribes a special quorum for meeting resolutions and the matters 
prescribed in Article 57, paragraph (2), the bylaws may provide that matters 
are to be decided by the directors and other officers. 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the director may 
decide on an act of preservation. 
 
(Liability of Unit Owners) 
Article 53  (1) If an incorporated management association is unable to satisfy its 
obligations in full with its assets, the unit owners are liable for the 
performance of obligations in the same proportion as that specified in Article 
14; provided, however, that if a proportion for sharing expenses prescribed in 
the proviso to Article 29, paragraph (1) has been specified, the unit owners' 
liability is to be in accordance with that proportion. 
(2) The provisions of the preceding paragraph also apply if enforcement against 
the assets of the incorporated management association does not prove to be 
effective. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
18 
(3) The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not apply if the unit owners 
have proved that the incorporated management association has sufficient 
financial resources and that the execution can be easily performed. 
 
(Liability of Specific Successors) 
Article 54  A unit owner's specific successor has the same liability as that which 
the unit owner has pursuant to the preceding Article, even if it concerns 
obligations of the incorporated management association that arose before the 
succession. 
 
(Dissolution) 
Article 55  (1) An incorporated management association is dissolved on the 
following grounds: 
(i) the total destruction of the building (or, for an incorporated management 
association consisting of unit owners who should have common use of private 
common areas, the total destruction of those common areas); 
(ii) the exclusively-owned areas in the building having ceased to exist; and 
(iii) a resolution at a meeting. 
(2) The resolution referred to in item (iii) of the preceding paragraph is adopted 
by at least a three-fourths majority of the unit owners and a three-fourths 
majority of the votes. 
 
(Capacity of an Incorporated Management Association under Liquidation) 
Article 55-2  A dissolved incorporated management association is deemed to 
continue to exist inasmuch as the purpose of liquidation is concerned, until the 
completion of the liquidation. 
 
(Liquidators) 
Article 55-3  If an incorporated management association is dissolved, unless it is 
dissolved due to an order commencing bankruptcy proceedings, the director is 
to be the liquidator; provided, however, that this does not apply if otherwise 
provided for in the bylaws or if a person other than a director has been 
appointed at a meeting. 
 
(Appointment of a Liquidator by the Court) 
Article 55-4  If there is no person to become a liquidator pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding Article or if damage is likely to occur due to a 
vacancy in the office of liquidator, the court may appoint a liquidator at the 
request of an interested person or the public prosecutor, or by its own authority. 
 
(Dismissal of a Liquidator) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
19 
Article 55-5  If there are material grounds, the court may dismiss a liquidator at 
the request of an interested person or the public prosecutor, or by its own 
authority. 
 
(Duties and Authority of a Liquidator) 
Article 55-6  (1) The duties of a liquidator are as follows: 
(i) completion of pending affairs; 
(ii) collection of claims and performance of obligations; and 
(iii) delivery of residual assets. 
(2) A liquidator may engage in any and all acts necessary for the performance of 
the duties set forth in the items of the preceding paragraph. 
 
(Demands to File Claims) 
Article 55-7  (1) Within two months from the day on which a liquidator takes 
office, the liquidator must demand that creditors file their claims within a 
stated period of time, by giving public notice on at least three occasions. In 
such a case, the stated period of time may not be shorter than two months. 
(2) The public notice set forth in the preceding paragraph must be accompanied 
by a supplementary note stating that if a creditor does not file a claim within 
the stated period the creditor will be excluded from the liquidation; provided, 
however, that the liquidator may not exclude any known creditor. 
(3) A liquidator must separately make a demand to each known creditor to file 
their claims. 
(4) The public notice referred to in paragraph (1) is given by publication in the 
Official Gazette. 
 
(Filing of Claims After the Lapse of the Stated Period) 
Article 55-8  A creditor who files a claim after the lapse of the period referred to 
in paragraph (1) of the preceding Article may only make a claim against the 
assets that have not been delivered to persons with vested rights, after all 
obligations of the incorporated management association have been fully 
performed. 
 
(Commencement of Bankruptcy Proceedings with Respect to an Incorporated 
Management Association Under Liquidation) 
Article 55-9  (1) If it becomes apparent during liquidation that the assets of an 
incorporated management association are insufficient for the full performance 
of its obligations, the liquidator must immediately file a petition to commence 
bankruptcy proceedings and give public notice to that effect. 
(2) If an incorporated management association under liquidation has become 
subject to an order commencing bankruptcy proceedings, the liquidator is 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
20 
considered to have completed their duties once the association's administrative 
affairs are transferred to a bankruptcy trustee. 
(3) In the case prescribed in the preceding paragraph, if the incorporated 
management association under liquidation has already paid any money to the 
creditors, or has delivered any assets to persons with vested rights, the 
bankruptcy trustee may retrieve that money or those assets. 
(4) The public notice pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) is given by 
publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
(Vesting of Residual Assets) 
Article 56  The assets of a dissolved incorporated management association, 
unless otherwise provided for in the bylaws, are to vest in each unit owner in 
the same proportion as that specified in Article 14. 
 
(Supervision by the Court) 
Article 56-2  (1) The dissolution and liquidation of an incorporated management 
association are subject to the supervision of the court. 
(2) The court, on its own authority, may conduct any inspection that is necessary 
for the supervision referred to in the preceding paragraph at any time. 
 
(Jurisdiction over Cases Concerning Supervision of Dissolution and 
Liquidation) 
Article 56-3  Cases concerning the supervision of the dissolution and liquidation 
of an incorporated management association and cases concerning the liquidator 
are subject to the jurisdiction of the district court with jurisdiction in the 
locality of the incorporated management association's principal office. 
 
(Restriction on Appeals) 
Article 56-4  No appeal may be entered against a judicial decision on the 
appointment of a liquidator. 
 
(Remuneration for a Liquidator Appointed by the Court) 
Article 56-5  If the court has appointed a liquidator pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 55-4, it may fix the amount of remuneration that the incorporated 
management association is to pay to the liquidator. In such a case, the court 
must hear statements from the liquidator and the auditor. 
 
Article 56-6  Deleted 
 
(Appointment of Inspectors) 
Article 56-7  (1) The court may appoint an inspector for the purpose of having 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
21 
them carry out any investigation that is necessary for the supervision of the 
dissolution and liquidation of an incorporated management association. 
(2) The provisions of Article 56-4 and Article 56-5 apply mutatis mutandis if the 
court has appointed an inspector pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In such a case, the term "the liquidator and the auditor" in that 
Article is deemed to be replaced with "the incorporated management 
association and the inspector". 
 
Section 7 Measures Against Persons Who Violate Obligations 
 
(Request to Discontinue Acts Contrary to Common Interest) 
Article 57  (1) If a unit owner has performed an act prescribed in Article 6, 
paragraph (1) or if a unit owner is likely to perform such an act, all of the other 
unit owners or the incorporated management association may request that the 
unit owner discontinue the act, remove the outcome of the act, or take 
necessary measures to prevent the act, for the common interest of the unit 
owners. 
(2) In order for an action to be filed based on the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, the decision to file must be adopted as a meeting resolution. 
(3) Pursuant to a meeting resolution, a manager or a unit owner who has been 
designated at a meeting may file an action prescribed in the preceding 
paragraph on behalf of all of the other unit owners referred to in paragraph (1). 
(4) The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs apply mutatis mutandis if 
the possessor has performed an act set forth in Article 6, paragraph (1) as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to paragraph (3) of that Article and if the 
possessor is likely to perform such an act. 
 
(Seeking to Prohibit Use) 
Article 58  (1) In the case prescribed in paragraph (1) of the preceding Article, if 
the act specified in Article 6, paragraph (1) significantly impedes the unit 
owners' community life and if there is difficulty in removing the impediment 
and securing the use of the common area or maintaining the other unit owners' 
community life by making a request under the provisions of paragraph (1) of 
the preceding Article, all of the other unit owners or the incorporated 
management association, based on a meeting resolution, may file an action 
seeking to prohibit the unit owner involved in the act from using the 
exclusively-owned area for a reasonable period of time. 
(2) A resolution referred to in the preceding paragraph is adopted with at least a 
three-fourths majority of the unit owners and a three-fourths majority of the 
votes. 
(3) In order for the resolution referred to in paragraph (1) to be decided on, the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
22 
relevant unit owner must be given the opportunity to give an explanation in 
advance. 
(4) The provisions of paragraph (3) of the preceding Article apply mutatis 
mutandis to the filing of an action as referred to in paragraph (1). 
 
(Request for Auction of Unit Ownership) 
Article 59  (1) In the case prescribed in Article 57, paragraph (1), if the act 
prescribed in Article 6, paragraph (1) significantly impedes the unit owners' 
community life and if there is difficulty in removing the impediment and 
securing the use of the common area or maintaining the other unit owners' 
community life through other means, all of the other unit owners or the 
incorporated management association, based on a meeting resolution, may file 
an action seeking to auction off the unit ownership and the right to use the 
grounds held by the unit owner who is involved in the act. 
(2) The provisions of Article 57, paragraph (3) apply mutatis mutandis to the 
filing of an action referred to in the preceding paragraph, and the provisions of 
paragraph (2) and paragraph (3) of the preceding Article apply mutatis 
mutandis to the resolution referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
(3) A petition for an auction based on the judgment pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph (1) may not be filed once six months have elapsed from the day on 
which the judgment has become final and binding. 
(4) In the auction referred to in the preceding paragraph, neither the unit owner 
who is subject to the petition for the auction nor any person seeking to 
purchase the unit ownership or the right to use the grounds on the unit 
owner's account may make a purchase offer. 
 
(Seeking a Transfer from the Possessor) 
Article 60  (1) In the case prescribed in Article 57, paragraph (4), if the act 
prescribed in Article 6, paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to 
paragraph (3) of that Article significantly impedes the unit owners' community 
life and if there is difficulty in removing the impediment and securing the use 
of the common area or maintaining the other unit owners' community life 
through other means, all of the unit owners or the incorporated management 
association, based on a meeting resolution, may file an action seeking to cancel 
the contract concluded for the purpose of using or profiting from the 
exclusively-owned area in the possession of the possessor involved in the act 
and seeking the transfer of that exclusively-owned area. 
(2) The provisions of Article 57, paragraph (3) apply mutatis mutandis to the 
filing of the action referred to in the preceding paragraph, and the provisions of 
Article 58, paragraph (2) and paragraph (3) apply mutatis mutandis to the 
resolution referred to in the preceding paragraph. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
23 
(3) A person to whom an exclusively-owned area has been transferred based on a 
judgment under the provisions of paragraph (1) must further transfer the 
exclusively-owned area to the person who holds the title to possess the area 
without delay. 
 
Section 8 Restoration and Reconstruction 
 
(Restoration If Part of a Building Is Destroyed) 
Article 61  (1) If part of a building equivalent to up to half of the building's value 
has been destroyed, each unit owner may restore the common areas and their 
own exclusively-owned area that have been destroyed; provided, however, that 
this does not apply to the common areas if the resolution referred to in 
paragraph (3), paragraph (1) of the following Article, or Article 70, paragraph 
(1) has been adopted before the commencement of restoration work. 
(2) A unit owner who has restored a common area pursuant to the provisions of 
the preceding paragraph may request the other unit owners to reimburse them 
for the amount required for the restoration in accordance with the proportion 
specified in Article 14. 
(3) In the case prescribed in the main clause of paragraph (1), a resolution to 
restore the destroyed common areas may be brought before a meeting. 
(4) The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs do not preclude any 
provisions to the contrary in the bylaws. 
(5) Except in the cases prescribed in the main clause of paragraph (1), if part of a 
building has been destroyed, a resolution to restore the destroyed common 
areas may be adopted at a meeting by at least a three-fourths majority of the 
unit owners and a three-fourths majority of the votes. 
(6) In the minutes of a meeting at which a resolution under the preceding 
paragraph was adopted, whether each unit owner's vote was in favor of or 
against the resolution must be entered or recorded. 
(7) Other than in the cases referred to in the following paragraph, if a resolution 
under paragraph (5) has been adopted, once two weeks have elapsed from the 
day of the resolution, unit owners other than those who were in favor of the 
resolution (including the successors of those who were in favor of the 
resolution; hereinafter referred to as "those in favor of the resolution" in this 
Article) may request that some or all of those in favor of the resolution 
purchase the building and the rights to the building's grounds at their market 
value. In such a case, within two months from the day of the request, those in 
favor of the resolution who have been so requested may request that some or 
all of the others who were in favor of the resolution purchase the building and 
the rights to its grounds at their market value in accordance with the 
proportion specified in Article 14, calculated by excluding the unit owners 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
24 
other than those in favor of the resolution. 
(8) If a person who is capable of purchasing the building and the rights to its 
grounds has been designated by those in favor of the resolution by unanimous 
consent, and the designated person (hereinafter referred to as the "designated 
purchaser" in this Article) has notified the unit owners other than those in 
favor of the resolution to that effect in writing within two weeks from the day 
of the resolution under paragraph (5), the unit owners who have been so 
notified may only make the request prescribed in the first sentence of the 
preceding paragraph against the designated purchaser. 
(9) Pursuant to the provisions of Ministry of Justice Order and with the consent 
of the unit owners who are to be notified under the preceding paragraph, a 
designated purchaser may use electronic or magnetic means to notify the unit 
owners that a designated purchaser has been designated, in lieu of the written 
notice under the preceding paragraph. In such a case, the designated purchaser 
is deemed to have given the written notice. 
(10) If a designated purchaser does not perform all or part of the obligations 
connected with the purchase money for the transaction based on a request 
prescribed in the first sentence of paragraph (7), those in favor of the 
resolution (excluding those who have become designated purchasers; 
hereinafter the same applies in this paragraph and paragraph (15)) will be 
jointly and severally liable to perform those obligations in whole or in part; 
provided, however, that this does not apply if those in favor of the resolution 
have proved that the designated purchaser has sufficient financial resources, 
and that the execution can be easily performed. 
(11) A person who has convened a meeting referred to in paragraph (5) (if the 
designated purchaser has already been designated, the designated purchaser; 
the same applies in the following paragraph) may specify a period of four 
months or more and demand in writing that unit owners other than those in 
favor of the resolution give a definite answer within that period as to whether 
they will make the request prescribed in the first sentence of paragraph (7). 
(12) Pursuant to the provisions of Ministry of Justice Order and with the consent 
of the unit owners provided for in the preceding paragraph, in lieu of a demand 
in writing under the preceding paragraph, a person who has convened a 
meeting referred to in paragraph (5) may use electronic or magnetic means to 
make a demand that the unit owners other than those in favor of the resolution 
give a definite answer as to whether or not they will make the request 
prescribed in the first sentence of paragraph (7). In such a case, the person who 
convened the meeting referred to in paragraph (5) is deemed to have made the 
demand in writing. 
(13) A unit owner who has received a demand prescribed in paragraph (11) may 
not make the request prescribed in the first sentence of paragraph (7) after the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
25 
period specified pursuant to the provisions of the paragraph (11) has elapsed. 
(14) In the case prescribed in paragraph (5), if a resolution under that paragraph, 
paragraph (1) of the following Article, or Article 70, paragraph (1) has not been 
adopted within six months after the day of the partial destruction of the 
building, each unit owner may request that other unit owners purchase the 
building and the rights to its grounds at their market value. 
(15) In the cases referred to in paragraph (2), paragraph (7), paragraph (8), and 
the preceding paragraph, the court may grant a reasonable period for the 
payment of the redemption money or the purchase money at the request of a 
unit owner who has been requested to make the redemption or the purchase, a 
designated purchaser who has been requested to make the purchase, or those 
in favor of the resolution who has been requested to perform the obligations 
under the provisions of the main clause of paragraph (10). 
 
(Resolutions to Reconstruct) 
Article 62  (1) A resolution to demolish a building and construct a new building 
on the grounds of the building being demolished or on part of its land, or on 
land that includes all or part of the grounds of the building being demolished 
(hereinafter this is referred to as a "resolution to reconstruct") may be adopted 
at a meeting by at least a four-fifths majority of the unit owners and at least a 
four-fifths majority of the votes. 
(2) A resolution to reconstruct must establish the following matters: 
(i) an outline of the design of the building that is to be newly constructed 
(hereinafter referred to as the "reconstructed building" in this paragraph); 
(ii) the estimated amount of expenses necessary for the demolition of the 
building and the construction of the reconstructed building; 
(iii) matters concerning the sharing of expenses prescribed in the preceding 
item; and 
(iv) matters concerning the attribution of the unit ownership of the 
reconstructed building. 
(3) The matters referred to in item (iii) and item (iv) of the preceding paragraph 
must be established in a manner that does not undermine the equity of each 
unit owner. 
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 35, paragraph (1), if a meeting 
whose subject matter is a matter subject to a resolution provided for in 
paragraph (1) is convened, the notice under Article 35, paragraph (1) must be 
sent at least two months prior to the date of the meeting; provided, however 
that this period may be extended by the bylaws. 
(5) In the case prescribed in the preceding paragraph, when a person gives the 
notice referred to in Article 35, paragraph (1), they must give notice of the 
following matters, in addition to the outline of the proposal prescribed in 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26 
paragraph (5) of that Article: 
(i) the reasons that necessitate the reconstruction; 
(ii) if it has been decided that the building will not be reconstructed, the 
amount of expenses necessary to maintain or recover the utility of the 
building (including securing the utility that a building normally should have), 
and the breakdown of the expenses; 
(iii) if a plan for repairing the building has been established, the content of the 
plan; and 
(iv) the amount of reserve funds reserved for the repair of the building. 
(6) A person who has convened a meeting referred to in paragraph (4) must hold 
an explanatory meeting to explain to the unit owners the matters of which the 
person is required to notify them when convening a meeting, by at least one 
month prior to the date of the meeting. 
(7) The provisions of Article 35, paragraphs (1) through (4), and Article 36 apply 
mutatis mutandis to the holding of an explanatory meeting referred to in the 
preceding paragraph. In such a case, the term "extended or shortened" in the 
proviso to Article 35, paragraph (1) is deemed to be replaced with "extended". 
(8) The provisions of paragraph (6) of the preceding Article apply mutatis 
mutandis to the minutes of a meeting that has adopted a resolution to 
reconstruct. 
 
(Requesting the Sale of Unit Ownership) 
Article 63  (1) If a resolution to reconstruct has been adopted, the person who 
convened the meeting must, without delay, demand in writing that the unit 
owners who were not in favor of the resolution to reconstruct (including their 
successors) answer whether or not they will participate in the reconstruction in 
accordance with the content of the resolution to reconstruct. 
(2) Pursuant to the provisions of Ministry of Justice Order and with the consent 
of the unit owners provided for in the preceding paragraph, in lieu of a demand 
in writing under the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the person who 
convened the meeting may use electronic or magnetic means to make a demand 
that those who were not in favor of the resolution to reconstruct answer 
whether or not they will participate in the reconstruction in accordance with 
the content of the resolution to reconstruct. In such a case, the person who 
convened the meeting is deemed to have made the demand in writing. 
(3) A unit owner provided for in paragraph (1) must give their answers within 
two months from the day on which they received the demand under that 
paragraph. 
(4) A unit owner provided for in paragraph (1) who has failed to give an answer 
within the period under the preceding paragraph is deemed to have answered 
that they will not participate in the reconstruction. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
27 
(5) After the period under paragraph (3) has expired, each unit owner who was in 
favor of the resolution to reconstruct or each unit owner who has answered 
that they will participate in the reconstruction in accordance with the content 
of the resolution to reconstruct (including the successors of those unit owners), 
or any person who has been designated as the person who may purchase the 
unit ownership or the rights to use the grounds with the unanimous consent of 
the unit owners (hereinafter referred to as the "designated purchaser") may 
demand that the unit owners who have answered that they will not participate 
in the reconstruction (including their successors) sell and transfer their unit 
ownership and the rights to use the grounds at their market value, within two 
months from the day that the period under paragraph (2) expires. The same 
applies to the rights to use the grounds that are held by a person who has 
acquired only the rights to use the grounds from a unit owner who has 
answered that they will not participate in the reconstruction after the adoption 
of the resolution to reconstruct (including that person's successor). 
(6) If a request under the preceding paragraph has been made, and if a unit 
owner who has answered that they will not participate in the reconstruction is 
likely to suffer extreme difficulty in their daily life as a result of vacating the 
building and there are obvious grounds for finding that the evacuation will not 
have a significant influence on the implementation of the resolution to 
reconstruct, the court, at the request of that person, may grant the person a 
reasonable period to vacate the building, within the scope of one year from the 
day of the payment or provision of the purchase money. 
(7) If demolition work on the building has not commenced within two years after 
the day a resolution to reconstruct was adopted, within six months from the 
day of the expiration of that period, a person who has sold their unit ownership 
or rights to use the grounds pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (5) may 
demand that the person who holds the unit ownership or the rights to use the 
grounds at the time in question sell and transfer those rights, by offering the 
current holder money equivalent to the purchase money paid to them by the 
purchaser; provided, however, that this does not apply if there are legitimate 
grounds for not commencing the demolition work on the building. 
(8) In the case prescribed in the proviso to the preceding paragraph, the 
provisions of the main clause of the preceding paragraph apply mutatis 
mutandis if demolition work on the building has not commenced within six 
months from the day on which the reasons preventing the commencement of 
the demolition work have ceased to exist. In such a case, the phrase "within six 
months from the day of the expiration of that period" in the main clause of the 
preceding paragraph is deemed to be replaced with "by the time six months 
have elapsed from the day on which the person who sold the unit ownership or 
the rights to use the grounds became aware that the reasons preventing the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
28 
commencement of demolition work on the building have ceased to exist, or two 
years from the day on which those reasons ceased to exist, whichever comes 
earlier". 
 
(Agreement on Reconstruction) 
Article 64  Each unit owner who was in favor of the resolution to reconstruct, 
each unit owner who answered that they will participate in the reconstruction 
in accordance with the content of the resolution to reconstruct, and each 
designated purchaser who purchased unit ownership or rights to use the 
grounds (including the successor of each of those persons) are deemed to have 
agreed to implement the reconstruction in accordance with the content of the 
resolution to reconstruct. 
 
Chapter II Housing Complexes 
 
(Association of Building Owners in a Housing Complex) 
Article 65  If two or more buildings are located in a single housing complex and 
the land or attached facilities located in the housing complex (including rights 
related to the land or facilities) is co-owned by the buildings' owners (or the 
unit owners, for buildings with exclusively-owned areas), all of those owners 
together (hereinafter referred to as the "owners of buildings in a housing 
complex") may organize an association to manage the land, attached facilities, 
and buildings with exclusively-owned areas that are located within the housing 
complex; and may hold meetings, establish bylaws, and assign a manager, 
pursuant to the provisions of this Act. 
 
(Application Mutatis Mutandis of Provisions Concerning Unit Ownership in a 
Building) 
Article 66  The provisions of Article 7, Article 8, Articles 17 through 19, Article 
25, Article 26, Article 28, Article 29, Article 30, paragraph (1), and paragraphs 
(3) through (5), Article 31, paragraph (1), and Articles 33 through 56-7 apply 
mutatis mutandis to the case referred to in the preceding Article. In such cases, 
the terms "unit owner" and "incorporated management association" in those 
provisions (excluding Article 55, paragraph (1), item (i)) are deemed to be 
replaced with "owners of the buildings in a housing complex as prescribed in 
Article 65" and "incorporated housing complex management association", 
respectively; the phrases "common areas, grounds of the building, or attached 
facilities of the building that are other than common areas" and "unit 
ownership" in Article 7, paragraph (1) are deemed to be replaced with "the land 
or the attached facilities (hereinafter referred to as the 'land or attached 
facilities) in the case referred to in Article 65" and "rights to the land or 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
29 
attached facilities, building, or unit ownership" respectively; the phrases 
"common areas" in Article 17, Article 18, paragraph (1) and paragraph (4), and 
Article 19, "the common areas, and the grounds and attached facilities of the 
relevant building in the case prescribed in Article 21" in Article 26, paragraph 
(1), and "the building, its grounds, and its attached facilities" in Article 29, 
paragraph (1) are deemed to be replaced with "the land or attached facilities, 
as well as the land or attached facilities set forth in Article 68, paragraph (1), 
item (i) and the common areas of the building set forth in Article 68, paragraph 
(1), item (ii) that are specified for management pursuant to the bylaws under 
the provisions of Article 68"; the term "exclusively-owned area" in Article 17, 
paragraph (2), Article 35, paragraph (2) and paragraph (3), Article 40, and 
Article 44, paragraph (1) is be deemed to be replaced with "building or 
exclusively-owned area"; the term "specified in Article 14" in Article 29, 
paragraph (1), Article 38, Article 53, paragraph (1) and Article 56 is deemed to 
be replaced with "of the share in the land or attached facilities (including 
rights related to them)"; the phrase "building or its grounds or attached 
facilities" in Article 30, paragraph (1) and Article 46, paragraph (2) is deemed 
to be replaced with "land or attached facilities or the things set forth in the 
items of Article 68, paragraph (1)"; the phrase "the exclusively-owned areas or 
common areas or the grounds or attached facilities of the building (including 
the rights related to them)" in Article 30, paragraph (3) is deemed to be 
replaced with "the building or common areas, or land or attached facilities 
(including rights related to them), or the land or attached facilities set forth in 
Article 68, paragraph (1), item (i) (including rights related to them) or the 
common areas of the building set forth in Article 68, paragraph (1), item (ii) 
that are specified for management pursuant to the bylaws under the provisions 
of Article 68"; the phrase "within the building" in Article 33, paragraph (3), 
Article 35, paragraph (4), and Article 44, paragraph (2) is deemed to be 
replaced with "within the housing complex"; the phrase "Article 61, paragraph 
(5), Article 62, paragraph (1), Article 68, paragraph (1) or Article 69, paragraph 
(7)" in Article 35, paragraph (5) is deemed to be replaced with "Article 69, 
paragraph (1), or Article 70, paragraph (1)"; the term "possessor" in Article 46, 
paragraph (2) is deemed to be replaced with "the person who possesses a 
building or an exclusively-owned area but who is not the owner of a building in 
the housing complex as prescribed in Article 65"; the term "Article 3" in Article 
47, paragraph (1) is deemed to be replaced with "Article 65"; the phrase 
"building (or, for an incorporated management association consisting of unit 
owners who should have common use of private common areas, the total 
destruction of those common areas)" in Article 55, paragraph (1), item (i) is 
deemed to be replaced with "land or attached facilities (including rights related 
to them)"; and the phrase "the exclusively-owned areas in the building have 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
30 
ceased to exist" in Article 55, paragraph (1), item (ii) is deemed to be replaced 
with "the land or attached facilities (including rights related to them) has 
ceased to be jointly held by the owners of the buildings in the housing complex 
as prescribed in Article 65". 
 
(Common Areas in a Housing Complex) 
Article 67  (1) The bylaws referred to in Article 30, paragraph (1) as applied 
mutatis mutandis pursuant to the preceding Article may establish that a 
building (inclusive of a portion of a building provided for in Article 1) 
constituting the attached facilities of a single housing complex is a common 
area in a housing complex. This being the case, a common area may not be 
asserted against a third party as a common area unless it is registered as such. 
(2) A person who wholly owns two or more buildings that are located in a single 
housing complex may establish bylaws under the preceding paragraph by a 
notarial deed. 
(3) The provisions of the main clause of Article 11, paragraph (1), Article 11, 
paragraph (3), and Articles 13 through 15 apply mutatis mutandis to the 
common areas in a housing complex. This being the case, the term "unit owner" 
in the main clause of Article 11, paragraph (1) is deemed to be replaced with 
"the owner of a building in the housing complex as prescribed in Article 65" 
and the term "exclusively-owned area" in Article 14, paragraph (1) and Article 
15 is deemed to be replaced with "building or exclusively-owned area". 
 
(Special Provisions on the Establishment of Bylaws) 
Article 68  (1) In order to establish the bylaws referred to in Article 30, 
paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66 concerning 
the following things, for the land or attached facilities set forth in item (i), the 
consent of more than three-fourths of the co-owners who hold more than a 
three-fourths share in all of the land or all of the attached facilities is required, 
and for the building set forth in item (ii), the adoption of a resolution by at 
least a three-fourths majority of the unit holders and a four-fifths majority of 
the votes, at a meeting under the provisions of Article 34 for the whole building 
is required: 
(i) the land or attached facilities that are located in a single housing complex 
(including rights related to the land or facilities), if these are co-owned by 
the owners of some of the buildings located in the housing complex (or unit 
owners, for buildings with exclusively-owned areas) (excluding land and 
attached facilities co-owned only by the owners of buildings not constituting 
buildings with exclusively-owned areas); and 
(ii) a building with exclusively-owned areas that is located in the housing 
complex. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
31 
(2) The provisions of Article 31, paragraph (2) apply mutatis mutandis to a 
meeting resolution referred to in the preceding paragraph for the matters 
concerning the private common areas of the building set forth in item (ii) of the 
preceding paragraph that do not affect the interests of all of the unit owners. 
 
(Resolutions to Approve the Reconstruction of Buildings Located in a Housing 
Complex) 
Article 69  (1) If some or all of the buildings in a single housing complex 
(hereinafter referred to as the "buildings in a housing complex" in this Article 
and the following Article) are buildings with exclusively-owned areas, and the 
land on which a specific building in the housing complex (hereinafter referred 
to as a "specific building" in this Article) is located is co-owned by the owners of 
buildings in a housing complex provided for in Article 65 (hereinafter simply 
referred to as the "owners of the buildings in the housing complex" in this 
Article) who own the buildings in the relevant housing complex, and if the 
requirements that the relevant of the following items specifies for the category 
set forth in that item are satisfied and a resolution for approval has been 
adopted by at least a three-fourths majority of the votes at the meeting of the 
association provided for in Article 65 that has been organized by the owners of 
the buildings in that housing complex who are the co-owners of the land 
(including the rights related to it) or the incorporated housing complex 
management association (such a resolution is hereinafter referred to as the 
"resolution to approve reconstruction"), the owners of buildings in that housing 
complex who own the specific building may demolish the specific building and 
construct a new building on the land or on land within the housing complex 
that is managed or used as a single unit with that land (limited to the land co-
owned by the owners of the buildings in the housing complex): 
(i) if the specific building is a building with exclusively-owned areas: a 
resolution to reconstruct has been adopted for the specific building or the 
consent of all of the unit owners of that specific building has been obtained; 
or 
(ii) if the specific building is a building other than a building with exclusively-
owned areas: the consent of the owners of that specific building has been 
obtained. 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 38 as applied mutatis mutandis 
pursuant to Article 66, the voting rights of each owner of the buildings in a 
housing complex at the meeting referred to in the preceding paragraph are to 
be in proportion to the share in the land on which the specific building is 
located (including rights related to that land), even if it is otherwise provided 
for in the bylaws referred to in Article 30, paragraph (1) as applied mutatis 
mutandis pursuant to Article 66. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
32 
(3) Owners of a building in a housing complex who own the specific building for 
which the requirements specified in the items of paragraph (1) are satisfied are 
deemed to have exercised voting rights in favor of the resolution to approve 
reconstruction; provided, however, that this does not apply to the exercise of 
voting rights by the unit owners of the specific building who hold the voting 
rights based on the right to use the grounds of a building other than the 
specific building from among the buildings in the housing complex, in the case 
prescribed in paragraph (1), item (i). 
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 35, paragraph (1), if a meeting 
under paragraph (1) is convened, the notice under Article 35, paragraph (1) as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66 must indicate an outline of 
the design of the building that is to be newly constructed (including the place 
in the housing complex where the building is to be located) in addition to the 
outline of the proposal provided for in Article 35, paragraph (5), and be sent by 
at least two months prior to the meeting date; provided, however, that this 
period may be extended by the bylaws referred to in Article 30, paragraph (1) 
as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66. 
(5) In the case referred to in paragraph (1), if the reconstruction under a 
resolution to approve reconstruction will have a special influence on the 
reconstruction of a building other than the specific building (hereinafter 
referred to as "the other building" in this paragraph), the specific building may 
only be reconstructed if the persons specified in the relevant of the following 
items for the category set forth in that item are in favor of the resolution to 
approve reconstruction: 
(i) if the other building is a building with exclusively-owned areas: unit owners 
who hold at least three-fourths of the voting rights of all of the other 
building's unit owners at the meeting referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(ii) if the other building is a building other than a building with exclusively-
owned areas: the owner of the other building. 
(6) In the case referred to in paragraph (1), if there are two or more specific 
buildings, the owners of buildings in the housing complex who own them may 
bring a resolution to approve the reconstruction of all of those buildings, with 
the consent of the owners of the buildings in a housing complex for each 
specific building. 
(7) In the case referred to in the preceding paragraph, if the specific buildings 
are buildings with exclusively-owned areas, a resolution to bring a resolution 
to approve the reconstruction of all of those buildings may be adopted by at 
least a four-fifths majority of the unit owners of the specific buildings and at 
least a four-fifths majority of the votes, at a meeting referred to in Article 62, 
paragraph (1) for which the reconstruction of the specific buildings is the 
subject matter. In such a case, if the resolution is adopted, the consent 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
33 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph is deemed to have been obtained from 
the owners of the buildings in the housing complex who own the specific 
buildings (limited to unit owners). 
 
(Resolutions to Reconstruct All Buildings Located in a Housing Complex) 
Article 70  (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 62, paragraph (1), if all 
of the buildings in a housing complex are buildings with exclusively-owned 
areas, and the grounds of the relevant buildings in the housing complex 
(meaning the land on which the buildings in a housing complex are located and 
the land that has been established as part of the grounds of the buildings in a 
housing complex pursuant to the provisions of Article 5, paragraph (1), and 
including the rights related to that land; hereinafter the same applies in this 
paragraph and the following paragraph) are co-owned by the unit owners of the 
buildings in the housing complex, and the bylaws referred to in Article 30, 
paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66 have been 
established for the buildings in the housing complex pursuant to the provisions 
of Article 68, paragraph (1) (excluding item (i)), a resolution regarding the 
buildings in a housing complex may be adopted to demolish all of the buildings 
in the housing complex and construct new buildings on the their grounds 
(exclusive of the rights related to those grounds; hereinafter the same applies 
in this paragraph), on part of that land, or on land that includes all or part of 
the grounds of the buildings in the housing complex (such land is referred to as 
the "grounds within the reconstructed housing complex" in paragraph (3), item 
(i)) (hereinafter the resolution is referred to as the "resolution to reconstruct 
all buildings" in this Article), by at least a four-fifths majority of the unit 
owners of the relevant buildings in the housing complex and by at least a four-
fifths majority of the votes, at a meeting of the association prescribed in Article 
65 that consists of the unit owners of the buildings in the housing complex who 
are the co-owners of the grounds of the buildings in the housing complex, or at 
a meeting of an incorporated housing complex association; provided, however, 
that this is limited to cases in which, at that meeting, at least two-thirds of the 
unit owners who hold at least two-thirds of the total votes prescribed in Article 
38 for each building in the housing complex were in favor of the resolution to 
reconstruct all buildings. 
(2) The provisions of paragraph (2) of the preceding Article apply mutatis 
mutandis to the voting rights of each unit owner referred to in the main clause 
of the preceding paragraph. In such a case, the phrase "the land where the 
specific building is located (including the rights related to that land)" in 
paragraph (2) of the preceding Article is deemed to be replaced with "the 
grounds of the buildings in the housing complex". 
(3) The following matters must be established by a resolution to reconstruct all 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
34 
buildings in a housing complex: 
(i) an outline of the plan for the integrated use of the grounds of the 
reconstructed housing complex; 
(ii) an outline of the designs of the buildings that are to be newly constructed 
(hereinafter referred to as the "reconstructed buildings in the housing 
complex" in this paragraph); 
(iii) the estimated amount of expenses necessary for the demolition of all of the 
buildings in the housing complex and for constructing the reconstructed 
buildings in the housing complex; 
(iv) matters concerning the sharing of expenses provided for in the preceding 
item; and 
(v) matters concerning the attribution of unit ownership in the reconstructed 
buildings in the housing complex. 
(4) The provisions of Article 62, paragraphs (3) through (8), Article 63, and 
Article 64 apply mutatis mutandis to a resolution to reconstruct all buildings 
in a housing complex. In such a case, the phrase "item (iii) and item (iv) of the 
preceding paragraph" in Article 62, paragraph (3) is deemed to be replaced 
with "Article 70, paragraph (3), item (iv) and item (v)"; the phrases "prescribed 
in paragraph (1)", "Article 35, paragraph (1)", and "bylaws" in Article 62, 
paragraph (4) are deemed to be replaced with "prescribed in Article 70, 
paragraph (1)", "Article 35, paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis 
pursuant to Article 66", and "the bylaws referred to in Article 30, paragraph (1) 
as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66", respectively; the phrase 
"Article 35, paragraph (1)" in Article 62, paragraph (5) is deemed to be replaced 
with "Article 35, paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to 
Article 66"; the phrases "Article 35, paragraphs (1) through (4) and Article 36" 
and "the proviso to Article 35, paragraph (1)" in Article 62, paragraph (7) are 
deemed to be replaced with "Article 35, paragraphs (1) through (4) and Article 
36 as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66" and "the proviso to 
Article 35, paragraph (1) as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66", 
respectively; and the phrase "paragraph (6) of the preceding Article" in Article 
62, paragraph (8) is deemed to be replaced with "Article 61, paragraph (6)". 
 
Chapter III Penal Provisions 
 
Article 71  In cases that fall under any of the following items, the manager, 
director, person retaining the bylaws, chairperson, or liquidator who has 
performed the acts set forth in that item is punished by a civil fine of not more 
than 200 thousand yen: 
(i) if the person has failed to retain the bylaws, minutes, or documents, or 
electronic or magnetic records referred to in Article 45, paragraph (4) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
35 
(including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66), in violation 
of the provisions of the main clause of Article 33, paragraph (1) (including as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 42, paragraph (5) and Article 
45, paragraph (4) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 
66) and Article 66; hereinafter the same applies in this item) or the main 
clause of Article 33, paragraph (1) as applied pursuant to Article 47, 
paragraph (12) following the deemed replacement of terms (including as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66); 
(ii) if the person has refused to offer for inspection the documents or content of 
the data recorded in the electronic or magnetic records prescribed in the 
preceding item, displayed through a means that is specified by Ministry of 
Justice Order without legitimate grounds, in violation of the provisions of 
Article 33, paragraph (2) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to 
Article 42, paragraph (5) and Article 45, paragraph (4) (including as applied 
mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66) and Article 66); 
(iii) if the person has failed to prepare minutes, or to enter or record the 
matters required to be entered or recorded in the minutes, or has made a 
false statement or record, in violation of the provisions of Article 42, 
paragraphs (1) through (4) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant 
to Article 66); 
(iv) if the person has failed to make a report or has made a false report, in 
violation of the provisions of Article 43 (including as applied pursuant to 
Article 47, paragraph (12) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant 
to Article 66) following the deemed replacement of terms and as applied 
mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66); 
(v) if the person has neglected to make the registration specified by Cabinet 
Order based on the provisions of Article 47, paragraph (3) (including as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66); 
(vi) if the person has failed to prepare an inventory of assets, or has made a 
false entry or record in the inventory of assets, in violation of the provisions 
of Article 48-2, paragraph (1) (including as applied mutatis mutandis 
pursuant to Article 66); 
(vii) if there are no directors or auditors or if there is a vacancy that results in 
a shortfall in the numbers of directors or auditors prescribed in the bylaws, 
and the person has neglected to follow the procedures for appointing someone 
to the relevant position; 
(viii) if the person has neglected to give public notice under the provisions of 
Article 55-7, paragraph (1) or Article 55-9, paragraph (1) (including as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66), or has given a false public 
notice; 
(ix) if the person has neglected to file a petition to commence bankruptcy 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
36 
proceedings under the provisions of Article 55-9, paragraph (1) (including as 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66); or 
(x) if the person has obstructed an inspection under the provisions of Article 
56-2, paragraph (2) (including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to 
Article 66). 
 
Article 72  A person violating the provisions of Article 48, paragraph (2) 
(including as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 66) is punished by 
a civil fine of not more than 100 thousand yen. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
