1 
Basic Act on the Environment 
 
(Act No. 91 of December 1, 2018) 
 
Table of Contents 
Chapter I General Provisions (Article 1 to 13) 
Chapter II Basic Policies for Environmental Conservation 
Section 1 Guidelines for the Formulation of Policies (Article 14) 
Section 2 Basic Environmental Plan (Article 15) 
Section 3 Environmental Quality Standards (Article 16) 
Section 4 Environmental Pollution Control in Specific Areas (Article 17 and 
18) 
Section 5 Policies for Environmental Conservation Implemented by the State 
(Article 19 to 31) 
Section 6 International Cooperation on Global Environmental Conservation, 
etc. (Article 32 to 35) 
Section 7 Policies Implemented by Local Governments (Article 36) 
Section 8 Burden of Costs (Article 37 to 40-2) 
Chapter III Councils on Environmental Conservation and Other Authorities 
with Council System 
Section 1 Councils on Environmental Conservation and Other Authorities 
with Council System (Article 41 to 44) 
Section 2 Conference on Environmental Pollution Control (Article 45 and 46) 
Supplementary Provisions 
 
Chapter I General Provisions 
 
(Purposes) 
Article 1  The purpose of this Act is to promote policies for environmental 
conservation in a comprehensive and systematic manner so as to ensure 
wholesome and cultured living of the people present and in the future, as well 
as to contribute to the welfare of humankind by establishing the basic 
principles of environmental conservation; clarifying the responsibilities of the 
State, local governments, business operators and citizens; and prescribing the 
basis for formulating the policies for environmental conservation. 
 
(Definitions) 
Article 2  (1) In this Act, "environmental load" means negative effects of human 
activities on the environment which may cause hindrances to the 
environmental conservation. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 
(2) In this Act, "global environmental conservation" means environmental 
conservation in response to global warming, ozone layer depletion, marine 
pollution, decrease in wildlife species, or situations affecting the whole or part 
of the world caused by human activities, which contributes to the welfare of 
humankind as well as to wholesome and cultured living of the people. 
(3) In this Act, "environmental pollution" means, air pollution, water pollution 
(including a deterioration in the water conditions and the quality of the bottom 
sediments except for the water quality; the same applies to Article 21, 
paragraph (1), item (i)), soil contamination, noise, vibration, ground subsidence 
(excluding subsidence caused by land excavation for mineral exploitation; the 
same applies hereinafter) and offensive odors caused by business activities and 
other human activities in a broad area, among the hindrances to environment 
conservation, which causes damage to human health or the living environment 
(including property closely related to human life, as well as flora and fauna 
closely related to human life and their growing environments; the same applies 
hereinafter). 
 
(Receiving Blessings of the Environment and Bequeathing the Blessings to 
Future Generations) 
Article 3  The environment must be conserved appropriately so that the current 
and future generations can enjoy the blessings of a healthy and productive 
environment, and the environment that is the basis of human survival can be 
sustained into the future, given the fact that sustaining the healthy and 
productive environment is indispensable for wholesome and cultured living of 
the people, and that the ecosystem exists by maintaining a delicate balance 
and the infinite environment that is the basis of human survival may be 
damaged by the environmental loads caused by human activities. 
 
(Building a Society that Facilitates Sustainable Development with Low 
Environmental Loads) 
Article 4  Environment must be conserved with the aim of building a society in 
which a healthy and productive environment is sustained and sustainable 
development is achieved by promoting sound economic development with low 
environmental loads; by reducing the environmental loads caused by socio-
economic and other activities as much as possible; and by taking an voluntary 
and proactive action for environmental conservation based on the fair 
allocation of roles between all people; and with the aim of preventing a 
hindrance to the environmental conservation based on the broad-based 
scientific knowledge. 
 
(Active Promotion of Global Environmental Conservation Through 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 
International Cooperation) 
Article 5  Global environmental conservation must be actively promoted in 
cooperation with other countries, utilizing Japan's capacities and resources, 
and in accordance with Japan's status in the international community, given 
the fact that global environmental conservation is the common concern of 
humankind, which is a requirement for ensuring the wholesome and cultured 
living of the people into the future, and that the Japan's economy and society is 
run in deeply interdependent world. 
 
(Responsibilities of the State) 
Article 6  The State is responsible for formulating and implementing basic and 
comprehensive policies for environmental conservation, pursuant to the basic 
principles on environmental conservation prescribed in the preceding three 
articles (hereinafter referred to as the "basic principles"). 
 
(Responsibilities of Local Governments) 
Article 7  The local governments are responsible for formulating and 
implementing policies for environmental conservation in accordance with the 
national policies and other policies which satisfy the natural and social 
conditions of the areas over which the local governments have authority, 
pursuant to the basic principles. 
 
(Responsibilities of Business Operators) 
Article 8  (1) Business operators are responsible for taking measures, when 
engaging in business activities, necessary to treat smoke and soot, polluted 
water and wastes generated from their business activities and prevent other 
environmental pollution, and to protect the natural environment properly, 
pursuant to the basic principles. 
(2) In order to prevent a hindrance to environmental conservation, business 
operators are responsible for taking necessary measures when manufacturing, 
processing or selling products or engaging in other business activities, so as to 
ensure proper disposal of the wastes if the products and other goods pertaining 
to these business activities are disposed of, pursuant to the basic principles. 
(3) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding two paragraphs, in order to prevent 
a hindrance to environmental conservation, business operators must endeavor 
to help reduce the environmental loads caused by the uses or disposal of the 
products or other goods pertaining to the business activities, when 
manufacturing, processing or selling the products, or engaging in other 
business activities; and endeavor to use recyclable resources and other raw 
materials and services which help reduce the environmental loads when 
engaging in their business activities, pursuant to the basic principles. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 
(4) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding three paragraphs, regarding the 
business activities, business operators are responsible for making voluntary 
efforts to reduce the environmental loads induced by their business activities 
and to conserve the environment; and cooperating with the State or local 
governments to implement the policies for environmental conservation, 
pursuant to the basic principles. 
 
(Responsibilities of Citizens) 
Article 9  (1) Citizens must endeavor to reduce impacts in their daily lives on the 
environment so as to prevent a hindrance to environmental conservation, 
pursuant to the basic principles. 
(2) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding paragraph, citizens are responsible 
for making voluntary efforts to conserve the environment and cooperating with 
the State or local government to implement the policies for environmental 
conservation, pursuant to the basic principles. 
 
(Environment Day) 
Article 10  (1) In order to broadly raise citizens' and business operators' 
awareness and deepen understanding of environmental conservation, and to 
enhance their motivation to actively engage in activities for environmental 
conservation, the Environment Day is established. 
(2) The Environment Day is June 5th. 
(3) The State and local governments must endeavor to carry out events which 
support the spirit and objective of the Environment Day. 
 
(Legislative Measures) 
Article 11  The government must take legislative, financial and other measures 
required to implement the policies for environmental conservation. 
 
(Annual Report) 
Article 12  (1) The government must submit a report on the state of the 
environment and the policies for environmental conservation implemented by 
the State to the Diet each year. 
(2) The government must prepare a document explaining the policies to be 
implemented by the government by taking into account the state of the 
environment described in the report in the preceding paragraph, and submit 
the document to the Diet. 
 
Article 13  Deleted 
 
Chapter II Basic Policies for Environmental Conservation 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5 
Section 1 Guidelines for Policy Formulation 
 
Article 14  The policies for environmental conservation set forth in this Chapter 
must be formulated and implemented in a comprehensive and systematic 
manner pursuant to the basic principle, by working in partnership with other 
sectors to implement various measures with each other, with the aim of 
achieving the following objectives: 
(i) the atmosphere, water, soil and other natural components of the 
environment are kept in good condition so as to protect human health, to 
conserve the living environment and to preserve the natural environment 
properly; 
(ii) the diversity of ecosystems, wildlife species, and other biological diversity 
are protected, and the different types of natural environments of the forest, 
farmlands and water bodies, etc. are conserved systematically in accordance 
with the natural and social conditions of the area; 
(iii) people can stay in touch with abundant nature. 
 
Section 2 Basic Environmental Plan 
 
Article 15  (1) The government must establish a basic plan for environmental 
conservation (hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Environmental Plan") in 
order to promote the policies for environmental conservation in a 
comprehensive and systematic manner. 
(2) The Basic Environmental Plan is to specify the following particulars: 
(i) the outline of long-term comprehensive policies for environmental 
conservation; 
(ii) beyond what is set forth in the preceding item, the particulars required to 
promote the policies for environmental conservation in a comprehensive and 
systematic manner. 
(3) The Minister of the Environment must prepare a draft of the Basic 
Environmental Plan and request the Cabinet to make a decision, after hearing 
the opinions of the Central Council on the Environment. 
(4) The Minister of the Environment must make the Basic Environmental Plan 
known to the public without delay when the Cabinet has made a decision under 
the preceding paragraph. 
(5) The preceding two paragraphs apply mutatis mutandis to changes made in 
the Basic Environmental Plan. 
 
Section 3 Environmental Quality Standards 
 
Article 16  (1) Regarding the environmental conditions on the air pollution, water 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6 
pollution, soil contamination and noise, the government is to establish 
environmental quality standards respectively, which are recommended to be 
kept up, so as to protect human health and conserve the living environments. 
(2) If the standards referred to in the preceding paragraph are classified into two 
or more categories, and their respective categories are established to designate 
an area or water bodies, which must be classified into their respective 
categories, an administrative affairs related to the designation of the area or 
the water bodies are to be carried out by persons specified in the relevant items, 
according to the classification of areas or water bodies set forth in the following 
items: 
(i) areas or water bodies which are located in more than two prefectures and 
are specified by Cabinet Order: the Government 
(ii) areas or water bodies except for those set forth in the preceding item: 
persons specified in (a) or (b) below, according to the classification of areas or 
water bodies set forth in the relevant (a) or (b) 
(a) areas located in the city, to which the standards of noise are applied 
(except for standards of aircraft noise and bullet train noise from the 
Shinkansen railway operations): the head of the city where the area is 
located; 
(b) areas or water bodies except for the areas set forth in (a): the governor of 
the prefecture where the areas or water bodies are located. 
(3) The standards set forth in paragraph (1) must be reviewed regularly from a 
scientific perspective and must be revised whenever necessary. 
(4) The government must endeavor to keep up the standards referred to in 
paragraph (1) by implementing policies for environmental pollution control 
which are set forth in this chapter, in a comprehensive, effective and proper 
manner (hereinafter referred to as the "policies for environmental pollution 
control"). 
 
Section 4 Environmental Pollution Control in Specific Areas 
 
(Building Environmental Pollution Control Programs) 
Article 17  The prefectural governors may build programs to implement measures 
for environmental pollution control (hereinafter referred to as a 
"Environmental Pollution Control Program") for areas falling under any of the 
following categories, based on the Basic Environmental Plan: 
(i) areas where serious environmental pollution is occurring, and it is deemed 
very difficult to prevent environmental pollution unless the policies for 
environmental pollution control are implemented in a comprehensive 
manner; 
(ii) areas where environmental pollution may get worse due to the rapid 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7 
concentration of population and industries or other circumstances, and it is 
deemed very difficult to prevent environmental pollution unless the policies 
for environmental pollution control are implemented in a comprehensive 
manner. 
 
(Promoting Achievements of Environmental Pollution Control Programs) 
Article 18  The State and local governments are to endeavor to take measures 
necessary to achieve the Environmental Pollution Control Programs. 
 
Section 5 I Policies for Environmental Conservation Implemented by the 
State 
 
(Things the State Considers in Building Environmental Pollution Control 
Programs) 
Article 19  The State must give consideration to environmental conservation 
when formulating and implementing policies which have impacts on the 
environment. 
 
(Promoting Assessments of Impacts on the Environment) 
Article 20  The State is to take measures necessary to encourage business 
operators engaged in changing the shape of land, construction of new 
structures and other similar businesses to voluntarily examine, estimate and 
evaluate the impact on the environment in a proper manner in advance, and to 
give proper consideration to environmental conservation in relation to their 
business based on the results thereof. 
 
(Regulations to Prevent Hindrances to Environmental Conservation) 
Article 21  (1) The State must take the following regulatory measures to prevent 
a hindrance to environmental conservation: 
(i) regulatory measures necessary to prevent environmental pollution, by 
setting the standards business operators, etc., must meet, for emission of 
substances which causes air pollution, water pollution or soil contamination 
and emission of offensive odors; generation of noise or vibration; pumping of 
underground water causing ground subsidence; or other acts; 
(ii) regulatory measures for land use necessary to prevent environmental 
pollution and for construction of facilities causing environmental pollution in 
an area where serious environmental pollution is occurring or environmental 
pollution may get worse; 
(iii) regulatory measures necessary to prevent a hindrance to conservation of 
the natural environment, for changing the shape of land construction of new 
structures, cutting of trees and bamboos, and other acts in areas where 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8 
conservation of the natural environment is highly required, which may 
hinder proper conservation of the natural environment; 
(iv) regulatory measures necessary to prevent a hindrance to conservation of 
the natural environment, for capturing animals and collecting natural 
objects, causing damage to the natural environment or other acts, which may 
hinder proper protection of wildlife, landscapes or geology, or sources of hot 
springs and other things created by nature that need to be protected; 
(v) regulatory measures necessary to prevent both environmental pollution and 
a hindrance to conservation of the natural environment when the both are 
occurring or may occur. 
(2) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding paragraph, the State must endeavor 
to take necessary regulatory measures according to the measures set forth in 
item (i) and (ii) of the paragraph, in order to prevent a hindrance to 
environmental conservation related to human health and the living 
environments. 
 
(Economic Measures to Prevent Hindrances to Environmental Conservation) 
Article 22  (1) In order to prevent a hindrance to environmental conservation by 
encouraging persons who are engaged in activities causing environmental load 
or activities contributing to environmental load (hereinafter referred to as 
"activities causing environmental load" in this Article) to build facilities which 
help reduce the impacts on the environment pertaining to activities causing 
environmental load or take other appropriate measures, the State is to 
endeavor to take measures necessary to provide financial aid for the persons 
engaged in activities causing environmental load, taking into account their 
financial position. 
(2) Given the fact that the measures, which aim at encouraging persons who are 
engaged in activities causing environmental load to voluntarily reduce the 
environmental load caused by their activities on a voluntary basis by imposing 
a financial burden on the persons in a fair and proper manner, are expected to 
be effective in preventing a hindrance to environmental conservation, and are 
internationally recommended; the State is to review and study the 
effectiveness of measures to prevent a hindrance to environmental 
conservation and the impacts of the measures on the Japanese economy in a 
proper manner, if the measures are taken; and to endeavor to acquire the 
understanding and cooperation of the people about preventing a hindrance to 
environmental conservation by implementing the measures, if the measures 
need to be taken. In this case, if the measures are related to the policies for 
global environmental conservation, the State is to give consideration to 
international collaboration so as to ensure the effectiveness of the measures in 
a proper manner. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9 
 
(Promoting Construction of Facilities and Other Projects for Environmental 
Conservation) 
Article 23  (1) The State is to take measures necessary to promote the setting up 
of buffer zones, construct other public facilities to prevent hindrances to 
environmental conservation, and those necessary to promote other projects on 
prevention of hindrances to environmental conservation, such as dredging of 
sludge, protection and breeding of endangered wildlife. 
(2) The State is to take measures necessary to promote the setting up of public 
facilities for sewerage systems and waste treatment, traffic facilities (including 
mobile facilities) that help reduce the environmental load, and other public 
facilities that help prevent hindrances to environmental conservation, and 
those necessary to promote other projects to prevent hindrance to 
environmental conservation such as the maintenance of forests. 
(3) The State is to take measures necessary to promote the setting up of parks, 
green areas and other public facilities, and those necessary to promote projects 
on appropriate improvements and sound uses of the natural environments. 
(4) The State is to take measures necessary to promote appropriate use of the 
public facilities prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs and other 
measures necessary to increase the effects of environmental conservation due 
to these facilities. 
 
(Promoting Uses of Products that Help Reduce Environmental Loads) 
Article 24  (1) The State is to take measures necessary to provide technical 
assistance, etc. to business operators so that the business operators may 
consider to reduce the impacts of products or other goods pertaining to the 
business activities on the environment on a voluntary basis by making an 
assessment of environment loads induced by the uses or disposal of those in 
advance, when manufacturing, processing or selling products, or engaging in 
other business activities. 
(2) The State is to take measures necessary to promote the use of recyclable 
resources and other materials, products and services which help reduce the 
environmental loads. 
 
(Education and Learning on Environmental Conservation) 
Article 25  The State is to take measures necessary to deepen citizens' and 
business operators' understanding of environmental conservation and to 
motivate those to engage in activities for environmental conservation, by 
promoting environmental education and learning and by improving public 
relations activities regarding environmental conservation. 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10 
(Measures to Promote Voluntary Activities by Private Sector Organizations) 
Article 26  The State is to take measures necessary to promote voluntary 
activities, including greening activities, collecting recyclable resources and 
other activities for environmental conservation conducted by citizens, business 
operators, or private sector organizations organized by the public or business 
operators (hereinafter referred to as the "private sector organizations"). 
 
(Provision of Information) 
Article 27  The State is to endeavor to provide information on the state of the 
environment and other information required for environmental conservation 
appropriately by giving consideration to the protection of the rights and 
interests of individuals and judicial persons, so as to promote the education 
and learning on environmental conservation provided for in Article 25 and to 
promote the voluntary activities for environmental conservation conducted by 
the private sector organizations set forth in the preceding Article. 
 
(Conducting Researches) 
Article 28  The State is to conduct surveys on the state of the environment, 
researches to forecast changes in the environments or to forecast the impacts of 
the changes in the environments and other studies necessary to formulate 
policies for environmental conservation. 
 
(Improvement in Systems for Monitoring) 
Article 29  The State is to endeavor to establish systems for monitoring, 
patrolling, observations, measurements, examinations and inspections 
necessary to ascertain the state of the environment and to implement the 
policies for environmental conservation properly. 
 
(Promotion of Science and Technology) 
Article 30  (1) The State is to promote science and technology used for developing 
methods to identify the mechanisms of change in the environment, to reduce 
the impacts on the environments, to evaluate the impacts of the economy on 
the environment and the economic blessings from the environment in a 
comprehensive manner, and to promote other science and technology used for 
conserving the environments. 
(2) In order to promote science and technology used for environmental 
conservation, the State is to establish experimental and research systems, 
promote research and development, disseminate the results thereof, train 
researchers and take other necessary measures. 
 
(Settlement of Environmental Pollution Disputes and Compensation for 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11 
Damage) 
Article 31  (1) The State must take measures necessary to implement mediation, 
arbitration in dispute or other measures to settle disputes over environmental 
pollution in an effective manner, and take other measures necessary to settle 
disputes over environmental pollution amicably. 
(2) The State must take measures necessary to implement measures to 
compensate for damage caused by environmental pollution smoothly. 
 
Section 6 International Cooperation on Global Environmental 
Conservation, etc. 
 
(International Cooperation on Global Environmental Conservation, etc.) 
Article 32  (1) The State is to endeavor to take necessary measures to ensure 
international collaboration on global environmental conservation, and to 
promote other international cooperation on global environmental conservation; 
to provide assistance for the environmental conservation in developing regions 
outside Japan and the environmental conservation highly evaluated 
internationally that contribute to the welfare of humankind and the wholesome 
and cultured living of the people (hereinafter referred to as the "environmental 
conservation in developing regions, etc." in this Article); and to promote other 
international cooperation on environmental conservation in developing regions, 
etc. 
(2) The State is to endeavor to take measures necessary to; foster persons with 
expertise knowledge on international cooperation on global environmental 
conservation and environmental conservation in developing regions, etc. 
(hereinafter referred to as the "global environmental conservation, etc."); to 
collect, summarize and analyze information on the status of the environment 
outside Japan and other information on the global environmental conservation; 
and to promote other international cooperation on global environmental 
conservation, etc. 
 
(Ensuring International Collaboration on Monitoring and Observation) 
Article 33  The State is to endeavor to ensure international collaboration so as to 
promote monitoring, observation and measurement of the environmental status 
on global environmental conservation, etc., in an effective manner; and to 
promote international cooperation to carry out surveys, examinations and 
researches on global environmental conservation, etc. 
 
(Measures to Promote Activities by Local Governments and Private Sector 
Organizations) 
Article 34  (1) In consideration of the importance of the roles played by local 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12 
governments in promoting international cooperation on global environmental 
conservation etc., the State is to endeavor to provide information and take 
other measures necessary to promote the activities related to international 
cooperation on global environmental conservation, etc. by the local 
governments. 
(2) In consideration of the importance of voluntary activities for international 
cooperation on global environmental conservation, etc. conducted by private 
sector organizations, etc. outside Japan, the State is to endeavor to provide 
information and take other measures necessary to promote their activities. 
 
(Things the State Considers when Engaged in International Cooperation) 
Article 35  (1) When engaged in international cooperation, the State must 
endeavor to give consideration to global environmental conservation, etc. in the 
regions related to the international cooperation. 
(2) Regarding business activities conducted in regions outside Japan, the State is 
to endeavor to provide information to business operators and to take other 
measures, so that the business operators can give consideration to global 
environmental conservation, etc. in the regions, in a proper manner. 
 
Section 7 Policies Implemented by Local Governments 
 
Article 36  Local governments are to promote and implement policies in a 
comprehensive and systematic manner according to the national policies set 
forth in Section 5 and other policies necessary for environmental conservation 
in accordance with the natural and social conditions of areas over which the 
local governments have authority. In this case, the prefectural government is 
to mainly implement the policies for a large area and to comprehensively 
coordinate the policies implemented by the municipal governments. 
 
Section 8 Burden of Costs 
 
(Cost Borne by Persons that Caused Pollution) 
Article 37  If a public works project is conducted by the State, a local government, 
or a person equivalent thereto (referred to as a "public operating body" in this 
Article), when it is appropriate and necessary for the public operating body to 
conduct the public works project in order to prevent environmental pollution or 
a hindrance to environmental conservation (hereinafter referred to as 
"problems related to environmental pollution, etc." in this Article), by taking 
into account the immediate need to prevent problems related to environmental 
pollution, etc. , the scale of the project and other circumstances, the State and 
local governments are to take measures necessary to impose all or part of the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13 
cost required to conduct the public works project on the person that created a 
need for the project in a fair and appropriate manner, within the limits of their 
responsibility attributed to their activities, provided that it is found 
appropriate to impose the cost required for the project on the person that 
created the need for the project, by taking into account the level of problems 
related to environmental pollution , etc., due to the person's activities that 
created the need for the project and the level of impact of the person's activities 
that caused pollution on the environment. 
 
(Cost Borne by Beneficiaries) 
Article 38  If any person receives huge benefits from conducting a public works 
project to conserve natural environment in an area where conservation of 
natural environment is highly required, the State and local governments are to 
take measures necessary to impose all or part of the costs required to conduct 
the project on the person in a fair and appropriate manner, up to the maximum 
amount of profit. 
 
(Financial Measures for Local Governments) 
Article 39  The State is to endeavor to take financial measures and other 
measures necessary to cope with the expenses required for the local 
governments to formulate and implement policies for environmental 
conservation. 
 
(Cooperation between the State and Local Governments) 
Article 40  The State and local governments are to cooperate with each other 
when implementing policies for environmental conservation. 
 
(Classification of Administrative Affairs) 
Article 40-2  Any administrative affairs to be handled by Prefectures or Cities 
pursuant to the provisions of the Article 16, paragraph (2) (excluding the 
administrative affairs specified by Cabinet Order), are classified as type-1 
statutory entrusted affairs as prescribed in Article 2, paragraph (9), item (i) of 
the Local Autonomy Act (Act No. 67 of 1947). 
 
Chapter III Councils on Environmental Conservation and Other 
Authorities with Council System 
Section 1 Councils on Environmental Conservation and Other 
Authorities with Council System 
 
(Central Council for the Environment) 
Article 41  (1) The Central Council for the Environment is to be established in 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
14 
the Ministry of the Environment. 
(2) The Central Council for the Environment is to handle administrative affairs 
set forth in the following items: 
(i) handling the matters concerning the Basic Environmental Plan provided for 
in Article 15, paragraph (3); 
(ii) examining and deliberating on the important matters regarding 
environmental conservation in response to the consultation requested by the 
Minister of the Environment or other ministers concerned; 
(iii) handling the matters over which the Central Council for the Environment 
has authority pursuant to the provisions of Natural Parks Act (Act No. 161 of 
1957), Act to Prevent Soil Contamination on Agricultural Land (Act No. 139 
of 1970), Nature Conservation Act (Act No. 85 of 1972), Act on Welfare and 
Management of Animals (Act No. 105 of 1973), Act on Special Measures 
concerning Conservation of the Environment of the Seto Inland Sea (Act No. 
110 of 1973), Act on Compensation for Pollution-related Health Damage (Act 
No. 111 of 1973), Act on Conservation of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna 
and Flora (Act No. 75 1992), Act on Special Measures against Dioxins (Act 
No. 105 of 1999), Basic Act on Establishing a Sound Material-Cycle Society 
(Act No. 110 of 2000), Act on Promotion of Recycling and Related Activities 
for Treatment of Cyclical Food Resources (Act No 116 of 2000), Act on 
Recycling, etc. of End-of-Life Vehicles (Act No. 87 of 2002), Protection and 
Control of Wild Birds and Mammals and Hunting Management Law (Act No. 
88 of 2002), Act on the Prevention of Adverse Ecological Impacts Caused by 
Designated Invasive Alien Species (Act No. 78 of 2004), Act on Asbestos 
Health Damage Relief (Act No. 4 of 2006), Basic Act on Biodiversity (Act No. 
58 of 2008), Act on Ensuring of Safety of Pet Animals Feed (Act No 83 of 
2008), Act on Preventing Environmental Pollution of Mercury (Act No. 42 of 
2015) and Climate Change Adaptation Act (Act No. 50 of 2018). 
(3) The Central Council for the Environment may submit its opinions on the 
matters set forth in the preceding paragraph to the Minister of the 
Environment or other ministers concerned. 
(4) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding two paragraphs, the organization of 
the Central Environmental Council, administrative affairs under its authority, 
its members and other employees and other matters necessary for the Central 
Environmental Council are prescribed by Cabinet Order. 
 
Article 42  Deleted 
 
(Prefectural Council on Environmental Conservation and Other Authorities 
with Council System) 
Article 43  (1) The prefectural governments are to establish councils and other 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
15 
organizations with council system consisting of members including persons 
with relevant expertise in environmental conservation to examine and discuss 
the basic matters and others regarding environmental conservation in areas 
located in the prefectures. 
(2) The particulars necessary for the organization and administration of councils 
and other authorities with council system prescribed in the preceding 
paragraph are to be specified by the relevant Prefectural Ordinance. 
 
(Municipal Council on Environmental Conservation and Other Authorities with 
Council System) 
Article 44  The municipal governments may establish councils and other 
authorities with council system consisting of members including persons with 
relevant expertise in environmental conservation, as provided for by Municipal 
Ordinances, to examine and discuss the basic matters and others regarding 
environmental conservation in areas located in the municipalities. 
 
Section 2 Conference on Environmental Pollution Control 
 
(Establishment of the Conference and Affairs under its Authority) 
Article 45  (1) The Conference on Environmental Pollution Control (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Conference") is to be established in the Ministry of the 
Environment as an extraordinary organ. 
(2) The Conference administers affairs set forth in the following items: 
(i) discussing the planning of basic and comprehensive policies for 
environmental pollution control and promoting the implementation of the 
policies; 
(ii) beyond what is set forth in the preceding item, administrative affairs over 
which the Conference has authority pursuant to the provisions of other laws 
and regulations. 
 
(Organization) 
Article 46  (1) The Conference is comprised of a chairperson and Conference 
members. 
(2) The Minister of the Environment is to be appointed as the chairperson. 
(3) Members are to be appointed by the Prime Minister from among the Chief 
Cabinet Secretary, the heads of the relevant administrative organs and the 
ministers of state for particular fields prescribed in Article 9, paragraph (1) of 
the Act for Establishment of the Cabinet Office (Act No. 89 of 1999), that are 
recommended by the Minister of the Environment. 
(4) Executive secretaries are to be appointed to support the Conference. 
(5) The executive secretaries are to be appointed by the Minister of the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
16 
Environment from among officials of the relevant administrative organs. 
(6) The executive secretaries assist the chairperson and other members in 
administering affairs over which the Conference has authority. 
(7) Beyond what is set forth in the preceding paragraphs, matters that are 
necessary for the organization and operation of the Conference are specified by 
Cabinet Order. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
 
This Act comes into effect on the day of promulgation; provided however, that 
the provisions of Articles 43 and 44 come into effect on the day specified by 
Cabinet Order within a period not exceeding one year from the date of 
promulgation. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
