 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE
PROPERTY
[Enforcement Date 10. Jul, 2024.] [Act No.19990, 09. Jan, 2024., Amendment by
Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산조정과)044-215-5254
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY
[Enforcement Date 10. Jul, 2024.] [Act No.19990, 09. Jan, 2024., Amendment by Other Act]
기획재정부 (국유재산조정과) 044-215-5254
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Act is to contribute to the sound management of
national finance through the promotion of the appropriate management of State property
by prescribing matters concerning special cases concerning State property, such as the
reduction of and exemption from fees of State property, etc., and the regulation thereof.
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The term "special cases concerning State property" in this Act means
any of the following:
1. Reduction of and exemption from fees, rent, other prices for the use of or proceeds
from State property (hereinafter referred to as "fees, etc.") to which Article 32 (1), 34 (1)
or 47 (1) of the State Property Act does not apply;
2. A permit to use or lending of State property beyond the period (hereinafter referred to
as "permission for long-term use, etc.") prescribed by Article 35 (1) or 46 (1) of the State
Property Act;
3. Transfer of State property to which Article 55 (1) of the State Property Act does not
apply.
 
Article 3 (Scope of Application) This Act shall not apply to any of the following cases:
<Amended on Jan. 29, 2020; Jan. 11, 2022>
1. Where fees, etc. of State property are reduced and exempted, a permission for long-
term use of State property is granted, or State property is transferred as the prices for
contributions to the State or provision of replacement facilities thereto (including cases
corresponding thereto) by any statute;
2. Where permission to occupy or use State property is granted or State property is lent or
transferred, in accordance with the Road Act, the River Act, the Small River Maintenance
Act, the Public Waters Management and Reclamation Act, the Fishing Villages and
Fishery Harbors Act, or the Harbor Act.
 
Article 4 (Regulation of Special Cases concerning State Property) (1) No special cases
concerning any State property shall be prescribed without conforming to the statutes
prescribed in the attached Table. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
(2) The attached Table of this Act cannot be amended by any statute other than this Act.
(3) Where other statutes have provisions different from the attached Table of this Act
regarding the duration of special cases concerning State property, the attached Table of
this Act shall apply thereto, notwithstanding the provisions of such other statutes. <Newly
Inserted on Jan. 11, 2022>
 
Article 5 (Basic Principles for Special Cases concerning State Property) Where the State newly
establishes, modifies, or operates special cases concerning State property by enacting or
amending a statute that provides for special cases concerning State property, the purpose
of this Act and the following principles shall be complied with:
1. The operation of special cases concerning State property shall conform to the interests
of the entire State;
2. Special cases concerning State property shall be more appropriate than budgetary
support, investment in kind, and other methods, as a method of financial support to
persons eligible for special cases;
3. Purposes and subject matters of, and application requirements for, special cases
concerning State property shall be prescribed specifically and clearly in a statute;
4. Special cases concerning State property shall be operated for the shortest period of time
necessary to achieve the objectives thereof.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Jan. 11, 2022]
 
Article 5-2 (Duration Period of State Property) (1) Where any special case concerning State
property is newly established, the duration period of the provisions of a statute governing
such special case shall be specified in the attached Table. <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
(2) The provisions of other statutes governing special cases concerning State property shall
remain in force until the expiration of the duration period specified in the attached Table.
<Newly Inserted on Jan. 11, 2022>
(3) The duration period under paragraph (1) shall be set as the shortest period of time
necessary to achieve the purpose of the special cases on State property and shall not
exceed 10 years, except in cases of permission for long-term use, etc. <Amended on Jan.
11, 2022>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014]
[Title Amended on Jan 11, 2022]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
Article 6 (Examination on Establishment of Special Cases concerning State Property) (1)
Where it is necessary to establish or change a special case concerning State property
(hereinafter referred to as "establishment, etc." in this Article) by enacting or amending
statutes or regulations, the head of each central government agency (referring to the head
of a central government agency under Article 6 of the National Finance Act) shall request
the Minister of Economy and Finance to examine the validity of the establishment, etc. of
the special case concerning State property before he or she preannounces legislation of
the relevant statutes or regulations.
(2) Where the head of each central government agency requests an examination pursuant
to paragraph (1), he or she shall submit a plan for the establishment, etc. of special cases
concerning State property (hereinafter referred to as "plan").
(3) Where the Minister of Economy and Finance is requested to make an examination
pursuant to paragraph (1), he or she shall examine whether the establishment, etc. of
special cases concerning State property complies with the basic principles of special cases
concerning State property under Article 5: <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
1. Deleted; <Jan. 11, 2022>
2. Deleted; <Jan. 11, 2022>
3. Deleted; <Jan. 11, 2022>
4. Deleted. <Jan. 11, 2022>
(4) Where the Minister of Economy and Finance makes an examination pursuant to
paragraph (3), he or she shall have the State Property Policy Deliberative Committee under
Article 26 of the State Property Act deliberate thereon.
(5) Where the Minister of Economy and Finance deems that, as a result of making an
examination under paragraph (3), the establishment, etc. of special cases concerning State
property fails to comply with the principles specified in the subparagraphs of Article 5, he
or she may request the head of a central government agency who has submitted the
relevant plan to review or revise the plan. <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
 
Article 7 (Inspection and Assessment on Special Cases concerning State Property) (1) The
Minister of Economy and Finance shall conduct the following examinations and evaluations
on a regular basis, after deliberation by the State Property Policy Deliberative Committee
to efficiently manage and operate special cases concerning State property: <Amended on
Jan. 11, 2022>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
1. Examinations on the actual operational status, such as the amount of expenditure and
procedures for administration of special cases concerning State property;
2. Evaluations of effectiveness and feasibility, such as the level of attainment of objectives,
economic  expenses,  and  performance  of  management  in  regard  to  special  cases
concerning  State  property.
(2) The Minister of Economy and Finance may take the following measures based on the
results of the examinations and evaluations under paragraph (1): <Amended on Jan. 11,
2022>
1. Where it is deemed that the operation of special cases concerning State property is
inappropriate or it is unnecessary to maintain the special cases concerning State
property: Requesting the head of the competent central government agency to improve
the system, such as amending statutes or regulations for the repeal, etc. of the relevant
special cases concerning State property;
2. Where it is deemed necessary to extend the duration period of special cases concerning
State property: Promotion of amending statutes or regulations for the extension of the
duration period of the relevant special cases concerning State property in consultation
with the head of the competent central government agency.
(3) The head of the competent central government agency who has been requested to
improve the system pursuant to paragraph (2) 1 shall consult with the Minister of Economy
and Finance by preparing measures such as amending statutes or regulations to repeal the
relevant special cases concerning State property, etc. <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
(4) Where the Minister of Economy and Finance deems it necessary for inspection and
assessment under paragraph (1), he or she may request the head of the competent central
government agency to submit necessary data.
(5) The Minister of Economy and Finance shall disclose the outcomes of inspection and
assessment under paragraph (1) to the public according to the method and procedure
prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(6) The Minister of Economy and Finance may entrust specialized research institutes with
surveys and research related to the evaluations under paragraph (1) 2 and may pay
expenses incurred in performing the entrusted affairs, within the budget. <Newly Inserted
on Jan. 11, 2022>
(7) Matters necessary for the specific methods, procedures, etc. for the evaluations under
paragraph (1) 2 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 11,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
2022>
 
Article 8 (Formulation of Comprehensive Plans for Special Cases concerning State Property)
(1) The head of each central government agency shall formulate a plan for special cases
concerning State property for the next year and submit it to the Minister of Economy and
Finance by no later than June 30 each year by including it in a plan for the next year on
the management and disposition of State property under Article 9 (2) of the State Property
Act.
(2) The Minister of Economy and Finance shall formulate a comprehensive plan for special
cases concerning State property by integrating and adjusting plans for special cases
concerning State property for the next year submitted by the heads of the central
government agencies pursuant to paragraph (1) and include it in a comprehensive plan for
State property under Article 9 (3) of the State Property Act.
(3) A comprehensive plan for special cases concerning State property shall include the
following matters:
1. The basic-direction setting for operation of special cases concerning State property;
2. The actual outcomes and prospects of the operation of special cases concerning State
property by types;
3. Kinds and sizes of State property, the use of which is to be permitted, or to be lent or
transferred in the next year, and the basis for the calculation thereof;
4. Matters prescribed by Presidential Decree in addition to those under the provisions of
subparagraphs 1 through 3.
 
Article 9 (Reports on Actual Outcomes of Operation) (1) The head of a central government
agency shall submit the actual outcomes of operation according to a comprehensive plan
for special cases concerning State property to the Minister of Economy and Finance by no
later than the end of February of the next year by including it in the management and
operation report of State property under Article 69 (1) of the State Property Act.
(2) The Minister of Economy and Finance shall integrate the actual outcomes of operation
submitted by the heads of the central government agencies pursuant to paragraph (1) and
include it in the general management and operation report of State property under Article
69 (2) of the State Property Act.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
Article 10 (Preparation of Expenditure Budget for Special Cases concerning State Property) (1)
The Minister of Economy and Finance shall prepare a report in which the actual outcomes
of funding in the immediately preceding fiscal year according to special cases concerning
State property, such as reduction of and exemption from fees, etc., transfer, etc., and the
estimated amount of funding in the relevant year and the next year are analyzed by types
of special cases concerning State property (hereinafter referred to as "expenditure budget
for special cases concerning State property").
(2) When necessary for preparing an expenditure budget for special cases concerning State
property, the Minister of Economy and Finance may request the heads of the central
government agencies to submit data.
(3) Matters concerning the specific method of preparing an expenditure budget for special
cases concerning State property shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 11 (Consultation on Transfer of State Property) Where any of the following persons
intends to transfer any State property under any statute other than the State Property Act,
he or she shall have prior consultation with the Minister of Economy and Finance:
1. The head of a central government agency;
2. A person to whom the affairs related to the administration and disposal of general
property are delegated or entrusted under Article 42 (1) of the State Property Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014]
[Previous Article 11 moved to Article 12 <Dec. 30, 2014>]
 
Article 12 (Restrictions on Uses of Transfer) (1) A person to whom State property is
transferred under any statute shall use such property for the designated purpose for not
less than 10 years from the date of transfer.
(2) Where the head of a central government agency transfers State property, he or she
shall register a special agreement to the effect that a transfer contract shall be terminated
if any transferred property is used within 10 years for a purpose other than for what it was
transferred.
[Moved from Article 11; previous Article 12 moved to Article 13 <Dec. 30, 2014>]
 
Article 13 (Delegation of Authority) (1) The Minister of Economy and Finance may delegate
part of his or her business affairs regarding inspection and assessment on special cases
concerning State property under Article 7 to the Administrator of the Public Procurement

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON RESTRICTION OF SPECIAL CASES CONCERNING STATE PROPERTY」
Service, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) Where the Administrator of the Public Procurement Service conducts an inspection and
assessment regarding special cases concerning State property pursuant to paragraph (1),
he or she shall report the findings thereof to the Minister of Economy and Finance.
[Moved from Article 12 <Dec. 30, 2014>]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
