 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE
[Enforcement Date 31. Mar, 2020.] [Act No.17140, 31. Mar, 2020., Partial
Amendment]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과)044-215-5156
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE
[Enforcement Date 31. Mar, 2020.] [Act No.17140, 31. Mar, 2020., Partial Amendment]
기획재정부 (국유재산정책과) 044-215-5156
 
            CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 The purpose of this Act is to promote the industrial revival and the stability of the
national economy by appropriately disposing of property devolving upon the State.
 
Article 2 The property devolving upon the State as prescribed in this Act refers to all the
property transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea pursuant to Article 5 of
the Initial Financial and Property Settlement Agreement concluded on September 11 of
Dangun Year 4281 between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government
of the United States of America: Provided, That farmland shall be treated separately
pursuant to the Farmland Reform Act.
Any  property  directly,  indirectly,  wholly,  or  partially  owned  by  Japanese  nationals,
enterprises, organizations, associations, or agencies thereof, organizations of the Japanese
Government, or organizations controlled by the Japanese Government as of August 9,
Dangun Year 4278, among the property items located in the regained area north of 38
degrees North latitude, shall be treated as property devolving upon the State prescribed in
the preceding paragraph and such property shall be governed by this Act. <Newly Inserted
on Dec. 31, 1956>
In cases of profit-making enterprises or other associations, etc. established in the Republic
of Korea prior to August 9, Dangun Year 4278, whose stocks or shares belonged to any
institution, national, or organization of Japan, it shall be deemed that such stocks or shares
have devolved upon the State (hereinafter referred to as “stocks or shares devolving upon
the State”).
In cases of incorporated foundations or incorporated associations established in the
Republic of Korea prior to August 9, Dangun Year 4278, in whose case the right regarding
directors of the board of directors or employees belonged to any institution, national, or
organization of Japan, it shall be deemed that such right regarding directors of the board
of directors or employees have been devolved upon the State (hereinafter referred to as
"right regarding directors of the board of directors or employees devolved upon the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
State").
 
Article 3 Any property devolving upon the State shall be sold to citizens or enterprises of the
Republic of Korea, except for property devolving upon the State that has been designated
as State property, public property, State enterprises, or public enterprises pursuant to this
Act or any order issued pursuant to this Act.
 
Article 4 Except as otherwise expressively provided for in other Acts, property devolving upon
the State shall be managed by the Government in accordance with this Act until they are
designated or sold pursuant to the preceding Article.
In cases of property devolving upon the State designated as State or public enterprises,
the Government shall manage such property until a statute to govern such property enters
into force.
 
            CHAPTER II STATE OWNERSHIP AND PUBLIC OWNERSHIP
 
Article 5 With respect to the property devolving upon the State, State ownership or public
ownership shall be recognized in cases of forests as necessary for securing the right to
natural resources listed in Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea or forest
property; historically valuable land, buildings, souvenirs, works of art, or documents; and
other immovables and movables having public values or requiring permanent preservation.
The preceding paragraph shall also apply to movables and immovables required by the
Government  or  public  organizations  for  official  use,  public  use,  or  certified  public
edification  or  by  welfare  agencies  for  performing  public  service  projects.
 
Article 6 With respect to the property devolving upon the State, State ownership or public
ownership shall be recognized in cases of the enterprises listed in Article 87 of the
Constitution of the Republic of Korea, and other enterprises of a public nature, including
important mines, steel mills, machinery factories, etc.
 
Article 7 The procedures for designating property or enterprises as State property, public
property, State enterprises, or public enterprises under the second immediately preceding
Article shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
 
            CHAPTER III SALE
 
Article 8 The sale of property devolving upon the State shall be divided into the following
four categories: <Amended on Dec. 18, 1959>
1. Sale of enterprises:
Selling, among the property devolving upon the State, all the property used for a profit-
making  business  by  an  institution,  national,  or  organization  of  Japan,  including
immovables, movables, and other rights of various kinds, by comprehensively evaluating
such property as a single unit: Provided, That such property may be divided and sold when
the relevant enterprise lacks grounds to survive or when no obstacle to the operation of
the relevant enterprise is expected;
2. Sale of immovables:
Selling, among the property devolving upon the State, houses, stores, land, and other
immovable property that do not belong to enterprises referred to in the preceding
subparagraph;
3. Sale of movables:
Selling, among the property devolving upon the State, movables that do not fall under
subparagraph 1;
4. Sale of stocks or shares:
Selling stocks or shares devolving upon the State: Provided, That to the extent that the
operation of an enterprise is not undermined, the property of an enterprise falling under
Article 2 (3) may be divided and sold by dissolving the relevant enterprise or association,
etc. The Commercial Act shall not apply to the aforementioned dissolution.
The examples prescribed in subparagraph 1 or 4 of the preceding paragraph shall apply
when  selling  businesses  devolved  upon  the  State  that  have  been  managed  as  an
incorporated  foundation  or  incorporated  association.
 
Article 9 None of the following persons shall be allowed to purchase any property devolving
upon the State: <Amended on Mar. 31, 2020>
1. A person under adult guardianship or limited guardianship;
2. A person who has been declared bankrupt and not yet reinstated;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
3. A person who is under the execution of, or the suspension of the execution of,
imprisonment without labor or greater punishment as declared by a court;
4. A person deprived of his/her civil rights;
5. A person found to have engaged in illegal disposal, intentional destruction or damaging,
or false reporting, etc. in relation to the managing and operating of property devolving
upon the State, and his/her family members;
6. A person who has been subject to cancellation or revocation of a contract due to the
reasons falling under Article 21, the last paragraph of Article 22 or Article 36, in relation
to the purchasing, lending, or managing of property devolving upon the State;
7. Any other person prohibited under other statutes.
 
Article 10 Where a member of a family has purchased an enterprise or immovable property,
other than a house or land, of the property devolving upon the State, no member of the
same family may repurchase it: Provided, That where it is essential to operate the
enterprise, an exception shall be allowed only for the manager of the relevant enterprise.
 
Article 11 Where a member of a family has purchased a house or land of the property
devolving upon the State, no member of the same family may repurchase it.
In cases of selling land, up to 200 pyeong of land per buyer shall be allowed for sale:
Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply when constructing a building other than
housing for personal residence.
 
Article 12 Where a member of a family is to purchase a house or land devolving upon the
State, any other member of the same family owning a house located within 20 kilometers
from the house or land to be purchased shall not be allowed to purchase the relevant
house or land devolving upon the State.
The  foregoing  shall  also  apply  to  a  person  who  has  owned  or  occupied  the
aforementioned house for at least one year as from August 9 of Dangun Year 4278.
 
Article 13 In applying this Act, matters subject to the prohibition of leasing, management, or
purchase on the ground that the relevant persons belong to the same family shall also
apply when organizing a family company.
A family company referred to in the preceding paragraph means a company where the
sum of stocks or investments held or made by its shareholders or employees or the sum of
stocks or investments held or made by its shareholders or employees and family members

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
thereof amounts to at least 50 percent of the total amount of stocks or investments of the
relevant company.
Leasing, managing, or selling any property devolving upon the State shall not have the
same effects as a family company prescribed in the preceding paragraph for at least two
enterprises.
 
Article 14 The provisions of the fifth immediately preceding Article shall also apply to a
person who has purchased any property devolving upon the State before this Act enters
into force.
 
Article 15 Any property devolving upon the State shall be sold preferentially to a relative who
is legitimate and has a sound mind and operational capacity, an employee, or a person
whose farmland has been purchased by the State under the Farmland Reform Act; and in
cases of houses devolving upon the State, the houses shall be sold preferentially to a
houseless person of distinguished service to the State and his/her bereaved family, a
houseless and needy worker, or a person who cannot afford to purchase a house other
than houses devolving upon the State.
With respect to property devolving upon the State needed by a non-profit enterprise
established as an association or foundation related to certified public edification, welfare,
or other public interests, preferential sale of such property may also be allowed.
Notwithstanding the second immediately preceding paragraph, large enterprises prescribed
by Presidential Decree among the property devolving upon the State shall be sold to the
highest bidder. <Newly Inserted on Sep. 23, 1954>
 
Article 16 Where it is deemed impossible or inappropriate to sell any property devolving
upon the State pursuant to the preceding Article, it shall be sold to the highest bidder by
holding a general or designated public auction.
Where the Government deems that the bid prices are inappropriate, it shall refuse the sale
and proceed with re-bidding.
If  the  second  bidding  on  the  property  devolving  upon  the  State  is  also  deemed
inappropriate,  the  relevant  property  devolving  upon  the  State  may  be  sold  at  an
appropriate price under a negotiated contract: Provided, That an appropriate price in such
cases shall exceed the highest bid price rejected.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Notwithstanding the third immediately preceding paragraph, in cases of any property
valued at less than 100,000 won by Government appraisal (it shall be less than 300,000
won  in  the  case  of  the  Seoul  Metropolitan  City),  such  property  may  be  sold  by  a
negotiated contract in the priority order of preferred purchasers prescribed in Article 15.
<Newly Inserted on Jul. 14, 1962>
 
Article 17 The Commissioner of the National Tax Service shall determine the purchaser of any
property devolving upon the State. <Amended on Dec. 31, 1956; Mar. 8, 1966>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Sep. 23, 1954]
 
Article 18 The sale price of any property devolving upon the State shall not be less than its
market price as at the time of selling the relevant property devolving upon the State.
The market price referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be determined by adjusting
it based on the amount of money prescribed in Article 23.
With respect to the employees of financial institutions commissioned to appraise the value
of any property devolving upon the State, Articles 129 through 134 of the Criminal Act
shall apply to their performance of the relevant duties. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 31, 1956>
@Articles 136 and 137 of the Criminal Act shall apply to any act interfering with the
performance of the duties referred to in the preceding paragraph. <Newly Inserted on Dec.
31, 1956>
 
Article 19 In principle, the purchase price of any property devolving upon the State shall be
paid fully in cash in a lump sum, but in cases of selling property devolving upon the State
other than movable property, the payment may be made in installments for a period of up
to 15 years.
When the purchase price is paid in installments pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the
first installment shall be at least ten percent of the total purchase price.
Where fluctuations of general prices during the payment period of the purchase price are
significant, the payment amount thereafter may be adjusted by the Act.
The purchase price of any property devolving upon the State may be paid in farmland
bonds prescribed in the Farmland Reform Act.
 
Article 20 Where liabilities are secured by any property devolving upon the State, such
liabilities shall be redeemed within the limit of the purchase price of the relevant property
devolving upon the State.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 21 Where the purchaser of any property devolving upon the State fails to pay the
purchase price or any installment thereof within a predetermined period, a fixed amount of
administrative fine may be imposed or the relevant contract may be canceled as prescribed
by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 21-2 The sale price of any property devolving upon the State or any installment
thereof, or an administrative fine prescribed in the preceding Article shall be collected in
the same manner as delinquent taxes are collected under the National Tax Collection Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 18, 1959]
 
Article 21-3 Where a person who has purchased any property devolving upon the State fails
to pay any installment of its purchase price payable by June 30, 1964 under the sales
contract by March 31, 1965, the sales contract for the relevant property shall be canceled:
Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply when the payment has not been made due to
extenuating circumstance. <Amended on Jan. 27, 2005>[This Article Newly Inserted on
Dec. 31, 1964]
[98Heon-Ga13, June 1, 2000; The provision of Article 21-3 of the Act on Disposal of Property Devolving upon
the State (which was newly inserted by Act No. 1675 on Dec. 31, 1964) is in violation of the Constitution,
which stipulates that where a purchaser of any property devolving upon the State fails to pay any installment
of its purchase price even due to extenuating circumstances, the sales contract for the relevant property shall
be canceled.]
 
Article 22 In selling any property devolving upon the State, where a purchaser pays at least
50 percent of the purchase price within two years from the date of the relevant sales
contract or at least 70 percent of the purchase price within four years from the date of the
relevant sales contract, the ownership of the relevant property devolving upon the State
may be transferred to such purchaser by establishing a mortgage on the value equivalent
to the balance of the payment to the Government.
The purchaser of any property devolving upon the State shall perform the duties as a
custodian prescribed in Chapter IV of this Act until the ownership of the relevant property
is transferred.
Where the purchaser violates the duties prescribed in the preceding paragraph, the
relevant contract may be canceled.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 23 In cases of a person subject to cancellation of a contract pursuant to the second
immediately preceding Article or a person who withdraws from a contract for such reasons
as change of professions, migration, etc., any of the following measures may be taken
regarding such person, by taking into account the relevant circumstances:
1. Returning all or some of the deposit or purchase price already paid;
2. Redeeming all or some of the expenses spent to increase the value of the relevant
property;
3. Paying the amount equivalent to the profits and rent received during the period of
managing and operating the relevant property;
4. Compensating for loss to the relevant property due to reasons attributed to the
purchaser.
Where the purchaser fails to make a payment or compensation prescribed in subparagraph
3 or 4 of the preceding paragraph, the collection shall be made in the same manner as the
delinquent national taxes are collected.
@Article 19 (3) may apply mutatis mutandis to cases prescribed in this Article.
 
            CHAPTER IV CUSTODIANSHIP
 
Article 24 (1) Any property devolving upon the State managed by the State pursuant to
Article 4 of this Act may be leased to a citizen or enterprise of the Republic of Korea.
(2) Articles 18, 19, 21, and 21-2 may apply mutatis mutandis to the rent prescribed in the
preceding paragraph. <Amended on Dec. 31, 1956; Dec. 18, 1959>
(3) Deleted. <Dec. 18, 1959>
 
Article 25 In cases of property devolving upon the State not suitable for leasing prescribed in
the preceding Article, the Government shall select custodians to be in charge of managing
such property.
 
Article 26 Any person falling under any subparagraph of Article 9 shall not be entitled to
lease or take custodianship of any property devolving upon the State.
 
Article 27 @Articles 10 through 12 shall apply mutatis mutandis to leasing or taking
custodianship of property devolving upon the State prescribed in this Chapter.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
Article 28 The second immediately preceding Article shall also apply to those engaged in
leasing or taking custodianship of any property devolving upon the State before this Act
enters into force.
 
Article 29 @Article 15 shall also apply to the leasing or custodianship of property devolving
upon the State.
 
Article 30 In cases of important enterprises devolving upon the State, the board of directors
may be established by selecting up to nine joint custodians.
 
Article 31 The lessee or custodian of an enterprise devolving upon the State shall be
appointed by a Minister having jurisdiction over the business affairs of the relevant
enterprise in consultation of the Minister of Strategy and Finance. <Amended on Sep. 23,
1954; Dec. 2008, 1956; Feb. 29, 2008>
The foregoing shall also apply to leasing or taking custodianship of stocks or shares
devolving upon the State.
 
Article 32 The custodian of any property devolving upon the State may receive a certain
amount of remuneration as prescribed Presidential Decree.
 
Article 33 Regarding the right or authority as a shareholder, employee, or any other person
holding the right of quota with respect to the stocks or shares devolving upon the State,
the Government may allow the lessee or custodian of the relevant property devolving
upon the State to wholly or partially exercise such right or authority.
The foregoing shall also apply to the right regarding directors of the board of directors or
employees.
 
Article 34 The lessee or custodian of any property devolving upon the State shall comply
with the following:
1. He/she shall operate the relevant property devolving upon the State in a way that
maximizes its value so as to promote national industries and the welfare of the people;
2. He/she shall preserve the relevant property devolving upon the State as instructed by
the Government, and shall not relocate, sublease, or dispose of such property without
approval of the Government;
3. He/she shall preserve the relevant property devolving upon the State with the care of a
good custodian, and shall not diminish the value or utility of such property;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
4. He/she shall keep accurate records and books of account.
 
Article 35 In any of the following cases, the relevant lease or custodianship contract may be
revoked, and an order may be issued to return the relevant property devolving upon the
State:
1. When falling under grounds for disqualification prescribed in this Act;
2. When violating any of the obligations of lessees or custodians prescribed in this Act;
3. When failing to comply with any of the Government's instructions or orders related to
managing and operating the relevant property devolving upon the State.
 
Article 36 @Article 23 may apply to any person who becomes subject to revocation of the
contract pursuant to the preceding Article or a person who withdraws from the leasing or
custodianship contract for such reasons as change of professions, migration, etc., by taking
into account the relevant circumstances.
 
Article 36-2 A person who has occupied or used any property devolving upon the State
without permission may be charged damages equivalent to the amount of the gain or rent
obtained during the period of such occupation or use.
Where  the  damages  referred  to  in  the  preceding  paragraph  is  not  paid  within  a
predetermined period, it shall be collected in the same manner as delinquent national
taxes are collected.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 31, 1956]
 
            CHAPTER V AUTHORITY IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY CUSTODIANSHIP
 
Article 37 Regional tax offices shall take charge of the business affairs related to property
devolving upon the State prescribed in this Act.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Dec. 14, 1963]
 
Article 38 Deleted. <Sep. 23, 1954>
 
Article 39 (1)　A deliberative council on petitions for property devolving upon the State shall
be established under the National Tax Service to review and make decisions regarding
petitions related to disposing of property devolving upon the State. <Amended on Dec.
31, 1956; Mar. 8, 1966>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ACT ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY DEVOLVING UPON THE STATE」
(2) Necessary matters concerning the organization, services, etc. of the deliberative council
on petitions for property devolving upon the State shall be prescribed by Presidential
Decree.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Dec. 31, 1956]
 
            CHAPTER VI PENALTY PROVISIONS
 
Article 40 Any person who has illegally acquired, disposed of, lost, destroyed, damaged, or
concealed any property devolving upon the State shall be punished by imprisonment with
labor for up to five years or by a fine not exceeding 300,000 hwan: Provided, That where
the value of the relevant property exceeds 300,000 hwan, the amount of fine shall be the
same as the value of the property. <Amended on Dec. 31, 1956>
 
Article 41 Any person who intentionally makes false reports or statements regarding the
lease, custodianship, or sale of property devolving upon the State shall be punished by
imprisonment with labor for up to three years or by a fine not exceeding 150,000 hwan.
<Amended on Dec. 31, 1956>
 
Article 42 The Presidential Decree to be enacted pursuant to this Act may include a penalty
provision for punishing any violator thereof by imprisonment with labor for up to six
months or by a fine not exceeding 100,000 hwan. <Amended on Dec. 31, 1956>
 
            CHAPTER VII SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
 
Article 42-2 (Special Cases concerning Sale of Stocks Devolving upon the State)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter III, Article 5 (4) of the Act on Temporary Special
Cases concerning Disposal of State or Public Property shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
sale of stocks devolving upon the State.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 7, 1962]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
