 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-
LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS
[Enforcement Date 23. Mar, 2013.] [Act No.11690, 23. Mar, 2013., Amendment by
Other Act]
국토교통부 (주택정책과)044-201-3330, 3332
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-
LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS
[Enforcement Date 23. Mar, 2013.] [Act No.11690, 23. Mar, 2013., Amendment by Other Act]
국토교통부 (주택정책과) 044-201-3330, 3332
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Act is to provide for matters necessary for facilitation
of the supply of land-leasehold housing units to contribute to the reduction of housing
expenses and stabilization of housing for the working class by smoothly promoting land-
leasehold housing projects.
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The terms used in this Act shall be defined as follows:
1. The term "housing unit" means multi-unit housing under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of
the Housing Act;
2. The term "land" means a portion of land belonging to the buildings (excluding welfare
facilities, such as commercial buildings for sale in lots) of land-leasehold housing units in
the entire land of a housing complex;
3. The term "unit ownership" means unit ownership under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of
the Act on Ownership and Management of Condominium Buildings;
4. The term "land-leasehold housing unit (hereinafter referred to as "land-leasehold
housing unit")" means a housing unit, the title to the land of which is held by the land-
leasehold housing construction business operator under Article 6 and the unit ownership
of the housing unit, public welfare facilities, etc. (the unit ownership of the exclusive parts
of a building is held by the purchasers of the exclusive parts and the unit ownership of
the parts for common use, auxiliary buildings and welfare facilities is held jointly by the
purchasers of the exclusive parts) is held by the purchaser of the housing unit.
 
Article 3 (Legal Status of Land-Leasehold Housing Units) Where a person who has purchased
a land-leasehold housing unit has entered into a lease contract with the owner of the land
in accordance with this Act, a right of superficies, the object of which is the unit ownership
of the land-leasehold housing unit, shall be deemed to have been instituted on the land
for the term of lease under Article 16.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
Article 4 (Relationship to other Acts) (1) This Act shall prevail over other Acts with respect to
the construction, supply, possession and management of land-leasehold housing units.
(2) Matters not provided for in this Act shall be governed by the Housing Act, the Act on
Ownership and Management of Condominium Buildings, and the Civil Act in the priority
stated.
 
Article 5 (Comprehensive Housing Plan, Financial Support, etc.) (1) The Minister of Land,
Infrastructure and Transport when formulating a comprehensive housing plan under Article
7 of the Housing Act and the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, Metropolitan City Mayors,
Do Governors, or the Governor of a Special Self-Governing Province (hereinafter referred to
as "Mayors/Do Governors") when formulating a comprehensive City/Do housing plan under
Article 8 of the Housing Act shall include matters concerning land-leasehold housing units
therein. <Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>
(2) The State and local governments shall endeavor to finance or provide the National
Housing Fund under Article 60 of the Housing Act for the preferential construction of land-
leasehold housing units included in the comprehensive housing plan and comprehensive
City/Do housing plan of the relevant year under paragraph (1).
(3) The State and local governments may, if necessary to smoothly develop the project to
construct land-leasehold housing units, grant the reduction or exemption of national taxes,
local taxes or other various kinds of charges, as prescribed by relevant Acts.
(4) Any person who manages a pension or a fund may lend the pension or the fund as
financial resources for the construction of land-leasehold housing units in accordance with
the Acts governing the pension or the fund.
 
Article 6 (Land-Leasehold Housing Construction Business Operator) Any of the following
persons may conduct land-leasehold housing construction business under this Act:
<Amended by Act No. 10464, Mar. 9, 2011>
1. The State or local governments;
2.  The  Korea  Land  and  Housing  Corporation  under  the  Korea  Land  and  Housing
Corporation Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Korea Land and Housing Corporation");
3. Local public enterprises established to conduct a housing business pursuant to Article 49
of the Local Public Enterprises Act (hereinafter referred to as "local public enterprises");
4. Other persons determined separately by Presidential Decree, who are qualified and able
to conduct housing construction business.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
Article 7 (Preferential Construction of Land-Leasehold Housing Units) Where a readjustment
promotion project under the Special Act on the Promotion of Urban Renewal is carried
out, the person holding the authority for the formulation of a readjustment promotion
plan under Article 14 of the same Act may devise measures necessary for the preferential
construction of land-leasehold housing units.
 
Article 8 (Determination of Price of Land-Leasehold Housing Units and Rent for Land, etc.) (1)
The prices of land-leasehold housing units in terms of structural part shall be determined
below the building cost under Article 38-2 (3) of the Housing Act.
(2) The rent for the land area (referring to the area obtained by multiplying the land area
by the ratio of the area of the exclusive part of a land-leasehold housing unit to the area
of the exclusive parts of the entire land-leasehold housing unit concerned) equivalent to a
portion of land used for a land-leasehold housing unit shall be calculated based on the
cost of formation of the relevant housing lot, appraisal price, etc. However, detailed
matters concerning the criteria for determining or readjusting rents for land, procedure for
payment of rents for land, etc. shall be determined by Presidential Decree. In such cases, in
principle, rents for land shall be paid on a monthly basis, but if a land-leasehold housing
construction business operator under Article 6 (hereinafter referred to as "business
operator") and a purchaser of a housing unit reaches agreement, the method of payment
of  such  rents  may  be  converted  into  lump-sum  deposit  money,  as  prescribed  by
Presidential  Decree.<Amended  by  Act  No.  11022,  Aug.  4,  2011>
(3) Where a landowner receives part of the rent for land in the form of lump-sum deposit
money (including the combination of lump-sum deposit money and monthly rents), he/she
shall  subscribe  to  guarantee  insurance  to  cover  the  lump-sum  deposit  money,  as
prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That the same shall not apply to cases where
the landowner is the State, a local government, the Korea Land and Housing Corporation,
or a local public enterprise.<Amended by Act No. 10464, Mar. 9, 2011>
(4)  Matters  concerning  the  details  of  the  method,  procedure  and  cost-sharing  for
subscribing to guarantee insurance under paragraph (3) shall be prescribed by Presidential
Decree.
(5) The publication of land-leasehold housing prices fixed pursuant to paragraph (1) shall
comply with the provisions of Article 38-2 of the Housing Act.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
(6) The land-leasehold housing prices under paragraph (1) and the publication of land-
leasehold housing prices under paragraph (5) shall be examined by the Housing Price
Examination Committee under Article 38-4 of the Housing Act.
 
Article 9 (Qualifications of Purchasers of Land-Leasehold Housing Units) (1) Land-leasehold
housing units shall be supplied preferentially to homeless householders, and matters
concerning the details of the method and procedure of supply, qualifications to live in a
land-leasehold housing unit, etc. shall be governed by the provisions of Article 38 of the
Housing Act. <Amended by Act No. 11022, Aug. 4, 2011>
(2) The supply of land-leasehold housing units shall be one land-leasehold housing unit to
one household.
 
Article 10 (Restriction on Resale of Land-Leasehold Housing Units, etc.) (1) No land-leasehold
housing unit purchaser shall be allowed to transfer the entitlement to live in a land-
leasehold housing unit (referring to the right, qualifications, status, etc. to live in the
housing unit; hereinafter the same shall apply) or resell (including purchase and sale,
donation and other acts of disposition accompanying any change in rights, except for
inheritance; hereinafter the same shall apply) the housing unit or arrange such transfer or
resale before a period prescribed by Presidential Decree within the scope of ten years
elapses.
(2) When a person who purchased, transferred, took over or inherited a land-leasehold
housing unit changes the ownership of the land-leasehold housing unit or concludes a
lease contract of such housing unit through purchase, sales, donation, inheritance, or
through  other  grounds,  he/she  shall  notify  the  relevant  landowner  of  the  fact,  as
prescribed by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.<Amended by Act No. 11022,
Aug. 4, 2011; Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>
(3) Any person who takes over or inherits a land-leasehold housing unit pursuant to
paragraph (2) shall succeed the lease contract under Article 16.
(4) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply to cases determined by Presidential
Decree, where it is deemed inevitable for a person who is entitled to live in a land-
leasehold housing unit or a person who is supplied with a land-leasehold housing unit to
resell the housing unit for a livelihood. In such cases, the relevant landowner may have a
preferential right to purchase the land-leasehold housing unit, and such preferentially-
purchased housing units shall be re-supplied as land-leasehold housing units under this

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
Act.
(5) The procedure for preferential purchase under paragraph (4), prices of preferentially-
purchased  housing  units  to  be  re-supplied  and  procedure  for  re-supply  shall  be
determined  by  Presidential  Decree.
(6) Where the entitlement to live in a land-leasehold housing unit has been transferred or
a land-leasehold housing unit has been resold in contravention of paragraph (1), if the
business operator has paid the relevant purchaser the amount of money obtained by
subtracting the depreciation cost of the building by the time of such transfer or resale as
prescribed by Presidential Decree from the sum of the payments made for the housing
unit and the amount of interest obtained by applying the average interest rate of one-year
maturity fixed deposits of banks under the Banking Act to the payments made for the
housing unit (hereinafter referred to as "purchase price"), the business operator shall be
deemed to have acquired the entitlement to live in the housing unit or acquired the
housing unit on the date when such payment was made, and the same shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the cost to be incurred when the landowner preferentially purchases the
relevant land-leasehold housing unit pursuant to paragraph (4).<Amended by Act No. 10303,
May 17, 2010>
(7) When registering the transfer of ownership under paragraph (6), the refunding of
purchase price, etc. by a business operator to a housing unit purchaser, etc., may be
verified with a document verifying the ground of registration.<Amended by Act No. 10580, Apr.
12, 2011>
(8) Where a business operator supplies a land-leasehold housing unit, supplementary
registration shall be made to the effect that the ownership of the land-leasehold housing
unit may not be transferred to a third person before the lapse of the period under
paragraph (1).
(9) The supplementary registration under paragraph (8) shall be made in concurrence with
the registration of ownership preservation of the land-leasehold housing unit, and matters
determined by Presidential Decree shall be specified in the supplementary registration.
 
Article 11 (Preferential Supply of Housing Lots) (1) The State, local governments, the Korea
Land and Housing Corporation and local public enterprises shall endeavor to preferentially
supply housing lots needed to supply the land-leasehold housing units planned in the
comprehensive housing plan and comprehensive City/Do housing plan of the relevant year

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
smoothly pursuant to Article 5. <Amended by Act No. 10464, Mar. 9, 2011>
(2) Any business operator that purchases a housing lot pursuant to paragraph (1) shall
commence construction work in the housing lot within two years from the date on which
the housing lot becomes usable.
 
Article 12 (Repurchase of Housing Lots, etc.) Where a business operator who has purchased a
housing lot pursuant to Article 11 (1) fails to commence construction work within the
period prescribed in paragraph (2) of the same Article, the housing lot development
business operator, such as the State or local governments under paragraph (1) of the same
Article, may repurchase the housing lot, paying the business operator the purchase price of
the housing lot, plus the amount of money calculated according to the interest rate
determined by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 13 (Utilization of Unsold Land-Leasehold Housing Units) Any business operator that
supplies land-leasehold housing units under this Act may, when he/she has unsold land-
leasehold housing units as at the time determined by Presidential Decree from the date of
completion of construction of the housing units, utilize them in other types of housing
other than land-leasehold housing, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
 
Article 14 (Actual Compensation) (1) Any business operator may compensate the landowners,
etc. of the business area with land-leasehold housing units built through the development
of such public project for the portions other than those compensated with cash, and bonds
under Article 63 (6) and (7) of the Act on Acquisition of and Compensation for Land, etc.
for Public Works Projects, when the landowners, etc. want to receive such compensation.
(2) For actual compensation under paragraph (1), the provisions of Article 63 of the Act on
Acquisition of and Compensation for Land, etc. for Public Works Projects shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the publication of persons entitled to actual compensation, standards
for the calculation of prices of land-leasehold housing units used for actual compensation,
criteria for compensation, etc.
(3) The provisions of Article 10 shall apply mutatis mutandis to restriction on the transfer
of the right to be compensated with land-leasehold housing units under paragraph (1) or
resale of land-leasehold housing units offered for compensation.
 
Article 15 (Special Cases concerning Floor Area Ratio, etc.) (1) Notwithstanding the provisions
of Article 78 of the National Land Planning and Utilization Act, the floor area ratio of land-

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
leasehold housing units shall be 250/100 or more unless the housing unit concerned is
located in any of the following zones and thereby limited of the height of its structure:
Provided, That it may not exceed the upper floor area ratio limit under Article 78 (1) 1 (b)
of the same Act: <Amended by Act No. 11022, Aug. 4, 2011>
1. Height districts, conservation districts, and facility protection districts among special-
purpose districts under Article 37 (1) of the National Land Planning and Utilization Act;
2. Flight safety zones under subparagraph 8 of Article 2 of the Protection of Military Bases
and Installations Act;
3. Airport zones or obstacle limitation zones under subparagraph 9 or 16 of Article 2 of the
Aviation Act;
4. Other zones determined by Presidential Decree.
(2) Every business operator shall, when building land-leasehold housing units, applying the
floor area ratio under paragraph (1), take into consideration the environmental factors in
surrounding areas, such as a wind corridor.
 
Article 16 (Term of Lease of Land, etc.) (1) The relation of lease of land of a land-leasehold
housing unit shall comply with the lease contract concluded between the landowner and
the purchaser of the housing unit, on condition that the term of such lease shall not
exceed 40 years: Provided, That when a term longer than that is stipulated in a lease
contract, such term shall prevail.
(2) The term of lease under paragraph (1) may be renewed when not less than 75/100 of
the owners of land-leasehold housing units claim for the renewal of the contract. In such
cases, the term after renewal shall not exceed 40 years from the date of renewal.
 
Article 17 (Reconstruction of Land-Leasehold Housing Units) (1) Where a land-leasehold
housing unit owner intends to remove the land-leasehold housing unit for reconstruction
in accordance with urban development-related Acts, such as the Act on the Maintenance
and Improvement of Urban Areas and Dwelling Conditions for Residents before the
expiration of the term of lease of land under Article 16, he/she may do so upon obtaining
the consent of the landowner thereto pursuant to Articles 47 through 49 of the Act on
Ownership and Management of Condominium Buildings. In such cases, the landowner may
not refuse it without a justifiable ground and the housing units to be reconstructed shall
also be built as land-leasehold housing units.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
(2) In cases of reconstructing a land-leasehold housing unit pursuant to paragraph (1), the
land-leasehold housing unit owner shall be deemed landowner, etc. under subparagraph 9
(b) of Article 2 of the Act on the Maintenance and Improvement of Urban Areas and
Dwelling Conditions for Residents.
(3)  When  the  consent  of  the  landowner  to  reconstruction  is  obtained  pursuant  to
paragraph (1), the landowner and the members of the housing reconstruction association
shall be deemed to have reached agreement on the term of lease of land under the main
sentence of Article 16 (1) from the date of approval on the completion of reconstruction.
 
Article 18 (Use of Standard Form Lease Contract) Any person who intends to enter into a
lease contract for land shall use the standard lease contract form determined by Ordinance
of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. <Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>
 
Article 19 (Corrective Orders, etc.) When the landowner of a land-leasehold housing unit, a
person who constructs land-leasehold housing units to sell them in lots, or a person who
has purchased, transferred, took over, or inherited the housing unit concerned, contravenes
this Act or any order or disposition under this Act, the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and
Transport, Mayors/Do Governors, or the heads of Sis/Guns/Gus (the heads of Gus means
the heads of autonomous Gus; hereinafter the same shall apply) may take necessary
measures, such corrective orders. <Amended by Act No. 11022, Aug. 4, 2011; Act No. 11690, Mar. 23,
2013>
 
Article 20 (Delegation and Entrustment of Authority) (1) The Minister of Land, Infrastructure
and Transport may delegate part of his/her authority vested under this Act to Mayors/Do
Governors or may entrust part of his/her authority to a corporation established to foster
housing industries, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23,
2013>
(2) Myors/Do Governors (excluding the Governor of a Special Self-Governing Province)
delegated with authority pursuant to paragraph (1) may re-delegate part of the authority
to  the  heads  of  Sis/Guns/Gus  upon  obtaining  approval  from  the  Minister  of  Land,
Infrastructure  and  Transport.<Amended  by  Act  No.  11690,  Mar.  23,  2013>
 
Article 21 (Penalty Provisions) Any of the following persons shall be punished by
imprisonment with labor for not more than three years or by a fine not exceeding 30
million won: <Amended by Act No. 11022, Aug. 4, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ACT ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR FACILITATING THE SUPPLY OF LAND-LEASEHOLD HOUSING UNITS」
1. A person who leases land in contravention of the criteria for rents under Article 8 (2);
2. A person who transfers the entitlement to live in a land-leasehold housing unit or resells
a land-leasehold housing unit or arranges such transfer or resale in contravention of
Article 10 (1).
 
Article 22 (Administrative Fines) (1) Any of the following persons shall be subject to an
administrative fine not exceeding 20 million won: <Amended by Act No. 11022, Aug. 4, 2011; Act
No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>
1. A person who fails to make notification in accordance with Article 10 (2);
2. A person who fails to use the standard form lease contract under Article 18 or fails to
perform the terms specified in the standard form lease contract;
3.  A  person  who  contravenes  an  order  of  the  Minister  of  Land,  Infrastructure  and
Transport,  Mayors/Do  Governors,  or  the  heads  of  Sis/Guns/Gus  under  Article  19.
(2) Administrative fines under paragraph (1) shall be imposed and collected by the Minister
of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Mayors/Do Governors or the heads of Sis/Guns/Gus,
as prescribed by Presidential Decree.<Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
