 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT
[Enforcement Date 02. Jan, 2024.] [Presidential Decree No.34086, 02. Jan, 2024.,
Partial Amendment]
기획재정부 (국유재산법-국유재산법총괄)044-215-5152
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT
[Enforcement Date 02. Jan, 2024.] [Presidential Decree No.34086, 02. Jan, 2024., Partial Amendment]
기획재정부 (국유재산법-국유재산법총괄) 044-215-5152
기획재정부 (출자관리과-현물출자, 정부배당) 044-215-5177
 
            CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Decree is to prescribe matters delegated by the State
Property Act and those necessary for the enforcement thereof.
 
Article 2 (Scope of Government-Invested Corporations) "Any corporation prescribed by
Presidential Decree" in subparagraph 6 of Article 2 of the State Property Act (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") means any corporation set forth in attached Table 1.
 
Article 3 (Scope of State Property) "Machinery and appliances prescribed by Presidential
Decree" in Article 5 (1) 3 of the Act means tram cars, such as locomotives, electric cars,
passenger coaches, freight cars, and diesel rail cars.
 
Article 4 (Classification of State Property) (1) "Period prescribed by Presidential Decree" in
Article 6 (2) 1 through 3 of the Act means five years from the date the State or a
government enterprise provided for in Article 2 of the Government Enterprise Budget Act
determines to use any State property as administrative property.
(2) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 6 (2) 1 of the Act means cases of
using or intending to use state property for any of the following purposes: <Newly
Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013>
1. Presidential residence;
2. An official residence to be used by a prime minister or by the head of an independent
institution or of a central governmental agency under Article 6 (1) and (2) of the National
Finance Act;
3. A facility provided for residential purposes, among the national defense and military
facilities under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on National Defense and Military
Installations Projects;
4. A residential facility for a person transferred to a place of work other than his or her
original place of work, or for the person who works on a circuit of areas due to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
personnel order;
5. A residential facility for the person on emergency duty, which is built within the relevant
emergency work place or within a place adjacent thereto;
6. Other residential facilities deemed relevant to a person’s work duty, in light of their
location, usage, etc.
(3) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 6 (2) 3 of the Act means cases
where using or intending to use a property for the purposes falling under paragraph (2) 4
through 6. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013>
(4) "Property the State preserves for other necessities" in Article 6 (2) 4 of the Act means
any property determined by the office of general administration to require preservation
thereof by the State. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
(5) The office of general administration shall determine whether to use or preserve
administrative property provided for in the subparagraphs of Article 6 (2) of the Act, taking
into consideration the opinions of the heads of the central government agencies referred
to in Article 6 of the National Finance Act (hereinafter referred to as "head of a central
government agency"). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 19, 2012; Apr. 5, 2013>
(6) Among the State properties under Article 6 (2) 1 and 3 and Article 6 (3) of the Act, the
office of general administration may determine the method of administering or disposing
of the State property being used or deemed necessary to be used by public officers or the
employees of government enterprises for residential purposes. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30,
2013>
 
Article 4-2 (Application for Using Administrative Property) When the head of a central
government agency intends to obtain approval for using administrative property pursuant
to Article 8 (4) of the Act, he or she shall submit a written application stating the details
under each of the following subparagraphs to the office of general administration:
1. Indication of property;
2. Purpose of use;
3. Plan for use;
4. Other matters deemed necessary by the office of general administration.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 4-3 (Delegation of Administration and Disposal of Administrative Property) (1)
Pursuant to Article 8 (6) of the Act, the office of general administration shall delegate the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
following affairs to the heads of central government agencies: <Amended on Jan. 25, 2012;
Dec. 30, 2022>
1. Affairs concerning the acquisition of property through the contribution acceptance
provided for in Article 13 of the Act;
2. Affairs concerning acquisition following the purchase, etc. of administrative property
(excluding property for public use defined in Article 5 (1) 1 of the Act);
3. Affairs concerning the acquisition of national defense and military installations defined in
subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on National Defense and Military Installations
Projects;
4.  Affairs  concerning  the  administration  (excluding  affairs  related  to  acquiring)  of
administrative  property;
5. Affairs concerning the disposal of disused administrative property (excluding the
property provided for in Article 5 (1) 1 of the Act);
6. Other affairs designated by the office of general administration as deemed necessary to
efficiently administer or dispose of administrative property.
(2) The use of administrative property acquired by the head of a central government
agency under paragraph (1) 1 through 3 shall be deemed approved under Article 8 (4) of
the Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 5 (Comprehensive Plan for State Property) "General plan regarding
administration/disposal of State property as prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 9
(4) 2 of the Act means any of the following plans:
1. Plan on the acquisition of State property;
2. Plan on the disposal of State property;
3. Plan on the use of administrative property in accordance with Article 8 (4) of the Act;
4. Plan on the development of general property in accordance with Article 57 of the Act;
5. Other plans on the administration of State property, such as the plan on permission for
use, loan, etc.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 6 (Creation of Private Rights) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso
of Article 11 (2) of the Act means cases that fall under any of the following subparagraphs:
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Where a private right has been created to general property in accordance with any other
Act or any final and conclusive judgment (including judicial reconciliation and others
having the same legal effect as that of the final and conclusive judgment);
2. Where the head of a central government agency, etc. deems it necessary to establish a
private right to increase the utility value of the relevant general property without
impeding the use and utilization thereof.
 
Article 7 (Acquisition of Ownerless Real Estate) (1) Matters to be publicly announced by the
office of general administration or the head of a central government agency pursuant to
Article 12 (2) of the Act are as follows: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. An indication of the relevant real estate;
2. The purport that the relevant real estate shall be acquired as State property unless a
person files a report on the lawful right to the real estate within six months after the
public announcement.
(2) The public announcement referred to in paragraph (1) shall be issued in the Official
Gazette  and  daily  newspapers,  and  posted  on  the  website  of  the  Regional  Public
Procurement Service having jurisdiction over the location of the relevant real estate for at
least 14 days. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 19, 2012>
(3) "Any special ground prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 12 (4)
of the Act means any of the following grounds:
1. Where the relevant State property becomes necessary for public works projects under
the Act on Acquisition of and Compensation for Land for Public Works Projects;
2. Where the relevant State property are to be sold due to extenuating circumstances, as
determined by the guidelines referred to in Article 9 (4) 3 of the Act.
 
Article 8 (Contribution Acceptance) (1) The office of general administration or the head of a
central government agency shall, in order to receive donation under Article 13 (1) of the
Act, receive a written document of donation which specifies the following matters. In such
cases, the office of general administration or the head of the central government agency
shall, if necessary, confirm the certified copy of register, building register, land cadastre,
forest land register, land registration map, and forest land map in relation to the relevant
property through the joint use of administrative information under Article 36 (1) of the
Electronic Government Act: <Amended on May 4, 2010; Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 1, 2015>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Indication of property to be donated;
2. Name and address of the donator;
3. Purpose of the donation;
4. Price of property to be donated;
5. Documents proving ownership;
6. Entries in the joint signature register of co-owned land, site register, and coordinates of
boundary  points  register  under  subparagraph  19  of  Article  2  of  the  Act  on  the
Establishment,  Management  of  Spatial  Data;
7. Building placement map and other necessary drawings, in relation to the property to be
donated.
(2) In cases of donation by a representative, documents proving the position as the
representative and a detailed statement specifying the names, addresses, and donated
property of the respective donators shall accompany the written document of donation
referred to in paragraph (1).
(3) "If it is impractical for the State to administer the property" or "if the State does not
require it" in the main clause, with the exception of the subparagraphs, of Article 13 (2) 1
of the Act means any of the following subparagraphs: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. If it is impractical for the head of a central government agency to directly use the
property in spite of expiration of the period for which the gratuitous use of the property
is permitted pursuant to Article 13 (2) 1 of the Act;
2. If the property costs too much in maintenance and repairs, compared with the property
value;
3. If the property is expected to bring no profit to the State.
(4) Where buildings or other permanent facilities are constructed on condition that such
buildings or facilities be donated, the office of general administration or the head of a
central government agency shall conclude a contract on such donation, etc. or collect a
verification of performance thereof before granting permission for use thereof. <Amended
on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 9 (Registration and Record) (1) The office of general administration or the head of a
central government agency shall, when it acquires any State property,register or record
such property, enter the change of the holder thereof, or take other measures necessary
for the preservation of relevant rights pursuant to Article 14 (1) of the Act, within 60 days

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
from the date when the said property falls under its jurisdiction. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
(2) In taking necessary measures for the preservation of rights pursuant to paragraph (1),
the office of general administration or the head of a central government agency shall keep
any of the following documents which evidences that it has competent authority over the
relevant property: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. If agreement is reached as a result of consultation under Article 16 (1) of the Act, a
written agreement;
2. If the office of general administration has determined under Article 16 (2) of the Act, a
written determination;
3. If the office of general administration has designated the head of a central government
agency under Article 24 of the Act, a written designation.
(3) "Corporation prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 14 (2) of the
Act means the Korea Securities Depository established pursuant to Article 294 of the
Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Korea
Securities Depository").
 
Article 10 (Keeping and Handling Securities) (1) "Corporation designated by Presidential
Decree" in Article 15 (1) of the Act means any corporation that falls under any of the
following subparagraphs: <Amended on Nov. 15, 2010>
1. A bank pursuant to Article 2 (1) 2 of the Banking Act (excluding any institution deemed
a bank pursuant to Article 5 of that Act and any foreign bank);
2. The Korea Securities Depository.
(2) Necessary matters regarding the keeping, handling, etc. of securities pursuant to Article
4 (1) of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (hereinafter referred to
as "securities") shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
(3) If any corporation financed by the Government newly issues equity securities pursuant
to Article 4 (4) of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (hereinafter
referred to as "equity securities"), the office of general administration shall subscribe for
them by determining the amount, method, date, and place of payment.
 
Article 11 (Administrative Conversion) In cases of administrative conversion under Article 16
of the Act, the office of general administration or the head of a central government agency
which transfers the jurisdiction over the relevant property shall transfer both the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
documents related to the decision for the administrative conversion and the records of the
relevant property to the office of general administration or the head of the central
government agency which takes over the said jurisdiction. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 12 (Compensatory Administrative Conversion) (1) Where the administrative conversion
of any State property is made with compensation pursuant to the main clause, with the
exception of the subparagraphs, of Article 17 of the Act, the price of the relevant property
shall be determined in accordance with each of the following subparagraphs: <Amended
on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 30, 2016; Aug. 31, 2016; Jan. 21, 2022>
1. For securities: An amount calculated by applying mutatis mutandisArticles 43 and 44;
2.  For  State  property,  other  than  securities:  An  amount  appraised  by  an  appraisal
corporation, etc. among appraisal corporations, etc. (hereinafter referred to "appraisal
corporation, etc.") under the Act on Appraisal and Certified Appraisers.
(2)  Where  the  administrative  conversion  of  any  State  property  is  made  without
compensation under the proviso, with the exception of the subparagraphs, of Article 17 of
the Act, the price of the relevant property shall be the price entered in the State property
register (hereinafter referred to as "registered price"). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) Where the use of State property is permitted under Article 17 of the Act, the provisions
of Article 29 or Article 67-8 shall apply mutatis mutandis with respect to the determination
of the usage fees. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
[Title Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 13 (Measures for Performance Guarantee Reinstatement) (1) Any person who intends
to construct permanent facilities pursuant to the proviso, with the exception of the
subparagraphs, of Article 18 (1) of the Act shall submit to the head of a central
government agency, etc. a plan for constructing and reinstating those permanent facilities
(hereafter in this Article, referred to as "plan for construction, etc."). <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a person who intends to construct infrastructure
pursuant to Article 18 (1) 3 of the Act shall submit a plan for construction, etc. to the office
of general administration and obtain approval therefrom after consultation with the head
of a central government agency having jurisdiction over the relevant State property, and
any person who intends to extend or remodel a school facility pursuant to Article 18 (1) 5
of the Act shall submit a plan for construction, etc. to the Minister of Education, and obtain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
approval therefrom after consultation with the office of general administration and the
head of the relevant central government agency. <Newly Inserted on Sep. 29, 2020>
(3) The head of a central government agency, etc. shall direct a person constructing
permanent facilities pursuant to Article 18 (1) 3, 5, and 6 of the Act to deposit an amount
equivalent to the expenses and costs to be incurred in reinstating the relevant property
(hereafter referred to as "performance guarantee" in this Article) before commencing
construction works on the permanent facilities. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; ; Sep. 29,
2020>
(4) A performance guarantee shall be in the form of cash or any letter of guarantee, etc.
that falls under any of the following subparagraphs:<Amended on Nov. 15, 2010; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. A payment guarantee issued by a financial institution under Article 46 (4) of the
Enforcement Decree of theNational Finance Act or by a foreign bank under the Banking
Act;
2. A guaranty insurance policy issued by an insurance company permitted pursuant to the
Insurance Business Act.
(5) If a person who has deposited a performance guarantee fails to reinstate the relevant
State property in spite of the occurrence of the cause therefor, the head of a central
government agency, etc. may reinstate the said property using the performance guarantee
deposited. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
(6) The head of a central government agency, etc. shall return the remainder of a
performance guarantee, if any, less the cost of reinstatement. In such cases, if interest on a
performance guarantee deposited in cash accrues, the interest shall be returned as well.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
(7) Notwithstanding paragraph (5), if any permanent facilities or the part thereof is
expected to serve to enhance the utility value of the relevant State property at the time a
cause for its reinstatement occurs, the head of a central government agency, etc. may
acquire the permanent facilities or the part thereof without compensation, instead of the
reinstatement of such property. In such cases, the performance guarantee shall be returned
in whole or in part pursuant to paragraph (6). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
 
Article 13-2 (Construction of Permanent Facilities) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree"
in Article 18 (1) 2-2 of the Act means any of the following cases: <Amended on Jun. 26,
2018; Sep. 29, 2020; Dec. 12, 2023>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Where 1/2 or more of proceeds from sale of the property falling under Article 55 (2) 2 is
paid;
1-2. Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2021>
2. Where a privately owned building on the land falling under Article 55 (2) 3 is destroyed
due to natural or other disasters;
3. Where 1/5 or more of proceeds from sale of the property falling under Article 55 (3) 3
or 3-2 is paid;
4. Where 1/5 or more of proceeds from sale of the land falling under Article 55 (2) 9 is
paid.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER II OFFICE OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
 
Article 14 (Reporting on Unused Administrative Property) (1) "Unused administrative property
prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 21 (2) of the Act means any administrative
property falling under Article 5 (1) 1 of the Act that is not used, or need not be used, as
administrative property under any subparagraph of Article 6 (2) of the Act.
(2) The status of unused administrative property that shall be reported by the head of a
central government agency to the office of general administration pursuant to Article 21
(2) of the Act shall be as follows: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. The overall status and detailed description of unused administrative property as of the
end of the previous year;
2. The cause that gave rise to the non-use of administrative property;
3. The status of administration in the previous year, and a plan for utilization hereafter;
4. Other matters recognized by the office of general administration as necessary for
ascertaining the status of unused administrative property.
 
Article 15 (Audit) (1) The office of general administration may conduct an audit referred to in
Article 21 (3) of the Act, with the support of the Public Procurement Service.
(2) When the office of general administration has found anything to be unlawful or unjust
as a result of the audit under paragraph (1), it may take necessary measures against the
head of the relevant central government agency, such as a request for correction thereof.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(3) The head of a central government agency, etc. who is asked to take certain measures
pursuant to paragraph (2) shall notify the office of general administration and the Board of
Audit and Inspection of the results of the implementation thereof. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
 
Article 16 (Delegation and Entrustment of General Administrative Duties) (1) Pursuant to
Article 25 of the Act, the office of general administration shall delegate the following
duties to the Administrator of the Public Procurement Service: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011;
Dec. 28, 2011; Apr. 10, 2012; Jun. 19, 2012; Mar. 2, 2017; Jun. 26, 2018; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. Duties concerning the examination, etc. of the status of State property to support
general administrative affairs under Article 21 (1) and (2) of the Act (excluding the duties
referred to in paragraph (2) 1);
2. Duties concerning the confirmation and checkups of the status of management of State
property to support auditing or other necessary measures pursuant to Article 21 (3) of
the Act;
3. Duties concerning the designation of the head of a central government agency pursuant
to Article 24 of the Act;
4. Deleted; <Mar. 2, 2017>
5. Duties concerning the fact-finding inspection of concealed State property, ownerless real
estate, and property devolving upon the State under Article 2 of the Act on Disposal of
Property Devolving upon the State (hereinafter referred to as "concealed property, etc.")
and the recovery and reversion thereof to the State;
6. Duties concerning the acquisition of land reserved to meet the future administrative
demand;
7. Duties concerning the prior consultation on gratuitous reversion of administrative
property under the jurisdiction of the head of a central government agency, etc.;
8. Duties concerning the examination of land and buildings necessary to construct a new
government office, official residence, etc.
(2) Pursuant to Article 25 of the Act, the office of general administration shall entrust the
following duties to the Korea Asset Management Corporation established under the Act on
the Establishment of Korea Asset Management Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the
"Korea Asset Management Corporation"). In such cases, expenses for entrusting and other
necessary matters shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Finance: <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2017; Jun. 26, 2018; Feb. 17, 2022>
1. Duties concerning total inspection of the status of State property to support general
administrative duties referred to in Article 21 (1) and (2) of the Act, which are aviation
inspection duties or duties incidental thereto;
2. Duties concerning consultation about urban or Gun management plans for general
property under the jurisdiction of the office of general administration referred to in
Article 73-2 (1) of the Act;
3. Duties concerning consultation on gratuitous reversion, under the National Land
Planning and Utilization Act or other statutes, of general property under the jurisdiction
of the office of general administration entrusted with affairs related to administration and
disposal pursuant to Article 38 (3).
(3) Where the Administrator of the Public Procurement Service or the Korea Asset
Management Corporation requests the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, a Metropolitan
City Mayor, a Special Self-Governing City Mayor, a Do Governor, or the Special Self-
Governing Province Governor (hereinafter referred to as "Mayor/Do Governor") or the head
of a central government agency, etc. to provide cooperation in order to perform the duties
delegated or entrusted pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2), the Mayor/Do Governor or the
head of the central government agency, etc. shall comply with such request. <Amended on
Jun. 19, 2012; Mar. 2, 2017>
(4) In order to perform the duties provided for in paragraph (1) 1 and 2, the Administrator
of the Public Procurement Service shall prepare a plan for examining the status of State
property and a plan for confirming and checking the status of management of State
property, report to the office of general administration, and give notice thereof to the head
of the relevant central government agency, etc. by the last day of February each year.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(5) The Administrator of the Public Procurement Service shall submit, to the office of
general administration, a report on the findings of the examination conducted under
paragraph (1) 1, confirmation and checkups conducted under paragraph (1) 2, and matters,
etc. necessary for administering State property. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
[Title Amended on Mar. 2, 2017]
 
Article 17 (Organization and Operation of Committee for Examination on State Property
Policies) (1) The Committee for Examination on State Property Policies under Article 26 (1)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee") shall be comprised of the following
members: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
1. The Minister of Economy and Finance;
2. One person, the Vice Minister of Economy and Finance, who is designated by the
Minister of Economy and Finance;
3. The Vice Minister of Education;
4. The Vice Minister of National Defense;
5. The Vice Minister of the Interior and Safety;
5-2. The Vice Minister of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs;
5-3. One Vice Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, who is designated by the
Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport;
5-4. The Administrator of the Supply Administration;
5-5. The Minister of the Korea Forest Service;
6. Not more than 11 civilian members commissioned by the Minister of Economy and
Finance from among those who have profound learning and experience in a State
property-related field and fall under any of the following items:
(a) A person who has served for at least 10 years as an associate professor or in an
equivalent position at a college or university or an accredited research institute;
(b) A person who has served for at least 10 years as an attorney-at-law in the areas of
litigation and other legal services;
(c) A person who has served for at least 10 years as a certified public accountant in the
areas of audit and accounting;
(d) A person who has served for at least 10 years as a certified public appraiser in the
areas of appraisal and assessment;
(e) A person who is recognized to have a career equivalent to any of items (a) through
(d) above in the areas of real estate, securities, or other related services.
(2) The term of office of members who are not public officials shall be two years and they
may be appointed consecutively only once. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2023>
(3) The Minister of Economy and Finance may decommission any member described in
paragraph (1) 6 if he or she falls under either of the following subparagraphs:
1. When he or she becomes unable to perform his or her duties due to any mental
disorder;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. When he or she is deemed unfit to serve as a member on the grounds of neglect of
duty, injury to dignity or such.
(4) The chairperson of the Committee shall call meetings thereof and exercise general
control over the affairs thereof.
(5) If deemed necessary for deliberation, the Committee may ask the heads and staff
members of relevant institutions or related experts to attend its meetings and provide their
opinions.
(6) Other than those provided for in paragraphs (1) through (5), necessary matters
concerning the operation, etc. of the Committee shall be determined by the chairperson of
the Committee through its resolution.
 
Article 18 (Subcommittees) (1) Subcommittees for real estate, for securities, and for
contribution to concession shall be established in the Committee under the former part of
Article 26 (4) of the Act. <Amended on Mar. 2, 2017>
(2)  Matters  to  be  deliberated  by  the  subcommittees  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
"subcommittee") under paragraph (1) shall be classified pursuant to each of the following
subparagraphs: <Amended on Mar. 2, 2017>
1. Subcommittee for real estate:
(a) Matters on selling off, among the criteria for disposal under Article 9 (4) 3 of the Act;
(b) Matters of Article 26 (1) 2-2, 4, 5, and 6-2 of the Act;
(c) Other matters that the office of general administration deems necessary to be
deliberated by the subcommittee for real estate in connection with the affairs of
administration and disposal of the State property (excluding securities);
2. Subcommittee for securities:
(a) Matters of Article 26 (1) 6 of the Act;
(b) Matters on determination of estimated sales price of securities;
(c) Matters on determination of reduction rates in the estimated sales price of securities
in accordance with Article 42 (3);
(d) Other matters that the office of general administration deems necessary to be
deliberated by the subcommittee for securities in connection with the affairs of
administration and disposal of securities;
3. Subcommittee for contribution to concession:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            14                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(a) Matters on concession referred to in Article 55 (1) 3 of the Act (hereinafter in this
subparagraph, referred to as "contribution to concession");
(b) Other matters that the office of general administration deems necessary to be
deliberated by the subcommittee for contribution to concession, in connection with
the determination and management of contribution to concession.
(3) Each of the subcommittees shall be comprised of the committee members classified
under each of the following subparagraphs including one chairperson, and a Vice Minister
of Economy and Finance designated by the Minister of Economy and Finance shall serve as
the chairperson of each subcommittee: <Amended on Oct. 14, 2011; Mar. 2, 2017>
1. Subcommittee for real estate: Not more than six members commissioned by the Minister
of Economy and Finance from among those committee members falling under Article 17
(1) 2, 5, 5-4, 5-5, and 6;
2. Subcommittee for securities: Not more than five members commissioned by the Minister
of Economy and Finance from among those committee members falling under Article 17
(1) 2, 5, 5-4, and 6;
3.  Subcommittee  for  contribution  to  concession:  Not  more  than  five  members
commissioned by the Minister of Economy and Finance from among those committee
members falling under Article 17 (1) 2, 4, 5, 5-3, 5-4, and 6.
(4) With respect to the operation, etc. of the subcommittees, Article 17 (4) through (6) shall
apply mutatis mutandis. In such cases, the "Committee" shall be deemed "subcommittee".
[This Article Wholly Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER II-2 STATE PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION FUND
 
Article 18-2 (Entrustment of Administration and Management of State Property
Administration Fund) (1) In accordance with Article 26-6 (2) of the Act, the office of general
administration shall entrust the following affairs to the Korea Asset Management
Corporation: <Amended on Mar. 24, 2014; Mar. 2, 2017>
1.  Accounting  affairs  on  administration  and  management  of  the  State  Property
Administration Fund established under Article 26-2 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as
"State Property Administration Fund" in this Chapter);

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            15                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Affairs concerning the preparation of the report on final accounts of the State Property
Administration Fund;
3. Affairs concerning the project to be developed as a source of revenue for the State
Property Administration Fund, pursuant to Article 57 (1) of the Act;
4. Affairs concerning the management of surplus cash of the State Property Administration
Fund;
5. Other affairs that the office of general administration deems necessary in connection
with administration and management of the State Property Administration Fund.
(2) The expenses to be incurred for the affairs entrusted to the Korea Assets Management
Corporation pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be borne by the State Property Administration
Fund.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 18-3 (Separate Accounting of State Property Administration Fund) The Korea Assets
Management Corporation shall separately account for the State Property Administration
Fund, apart from other accounts of the Korea Assets Management Corporation.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER III ADMINISTRATIVE PROPERTY
 
Article 19 (Exchange and Concession of Administrative Property) (1) Article 57 shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the exchange pursuant to Article 27 (1) 1 of the Act, and Article 59 to
the concession pursuant to Article 27 (1) 2 of the Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) "Administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 27 (1) 2 of the Act
means the property falling under any subparagraph under Article 58 (1). <Newly Inserted
on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 20 (Delegation of Administrative Duties) (1) If the head of a central government
agency delegates its administrative duties concerning administrative property to its public
officials, or divides such duties among its public officials, pursuant to Article 28 (1) and (2)
of the Act, it shall notify such fact to the Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended on
Apr. 1, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            16                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) If the head of a central government agency intends to delegate its administrative duties
concerning administrative property to the public officials belonging to other offices of
administration under Article 28 (3) of the Act, it shall, before delegation, hear the opinions
of such other offices of administration as to public officials who will take charge of the
duties to be delegated and their positions and the scope of the duties to be delegated,
and shall notify the fact of delegation to the Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended on
Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) If the head of a central government agency intends to delegate its administrative duties
concerning administrative property to the head of a local government or public officials
thereof under Article 28 (4) of the Act, it shall, before delegation, hear the opinion of the
head of a central government agency supervising the relevant local government as to
public officials who will take charge of the duties to be delegated and their positions and
the scope of the duties to be delegated, and shall notify the fact of delegation to the
Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 21 (Qualifications of Persons to Be Entrusted with Administration) In entrusting the
administration of administrative property (hereinafter referred to as "entrustment of
administration") under Article 29 of the Act, if special skill and capacity are required for the
administration of the relevant property in terms of the scale, purposes of use, etc. thereof,
the administration shall be entrusted to a person who has such skill and capacity or any
other person who is suitable for administration of such property.
 
Article 22 (Period of Entrustment of Administration) (1) The period of entrustment of
administration shall not exceed five years, but the entrustment of administration may be
renewed by up to five years, except in cases falling under any of the following
subparagraphs:
1. Where the property subject to the entrustment of administration needs to be used
directly by the State or a local government for official or public purpose;
2. Where a person who is entrusted with administration pursuant to Article 29 of the Act
(hereinafter referred to as "administrative trustee") fails to meet the qualifications to be
entrusted with administration under Article 21;
3. Where an administrative trustee violates the terms and conditions of the entrustment of
administration;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            17                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4. Where the entrustment of administration is no longer needed.
(2) If an administrative trustee intends to make use of or profit from a portion of the
entrusted property, or to allow another person to make use of or profit from it, pursuant
to  Article  29  (2)  of  the  Act,  it  shall  be  done  within  the  period  of  entrustment  of
administration.
 
Article 23 (Administration of Property Subject to Entrustment of Administration) (1) An
administrative trustee shall administer the entrusted property in consistency with the public
purposes with due care as a good manager, and if the entrusted property is damaged, he
or she shall report it to the head of a central government agency without delay.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) If an administrative trustee intends to make large-scaled repairs by which the original
form of the entrusted property would be changed, he or she shall obtain approval from
the head of a central government agency: Provided, That if it is urgently required, he or
she  may  take  necessary  minimum  measures  and  then  report  the  details  thereof
immediately to the head of a central government agency. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 24 (Fee for Use of Property Subject to Entrustment of Administration) (1) Usage fees
collected from a person who makes use of or benefits from the property entrusted
pursuant to Article 29 of the Act shall be determined by the head of a central government
agency on the basis of an amount calculated by the rate of fees for use and the method of
calculation as provided for in Articles 29 and 67-8, in consideration of the expected benefit
from the property. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
(2) If the total expenditure paid to an administrative trustee exceeds the total income
received from the administrative trustee on an annual basis, the head of a central
government agency shall pay the difference to the administrative trustee, and if the total
income exceeds the total expenditure, it shall cause the administrative trustee to pay the
difference to the National Treasury. In such cases, the scope of the expenditure and
income shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 25 (Report of Administration Status) (1) An administrative trustee shall provide an
annual report on the administration status of the entrusted property to the head of a
central government agency by January 31 of the following year. <Amended on Apr. 1,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            18                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2011>
(2) If necessary, the head of a central government agency may ascertain and examine the
administration status of property subject to the entrustment of administration or have the
relevant administrative trustee report thereon. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 26 (Sublease of Donated Property) (1) Where any person who has obtained
permission for using administrative property in a case falling under any of the
subparagraphs of Article 30 (2) of the Act intends to allow another person to make use of
and profit from that property, he or she shall submit to the head of a central government
agency an application for approval in which the following matters are entered: <Amended
on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. Indication of the property to be subleased;
2. Purpose of use of, ways to benefit from, and period of making use of and profit from,
the property to be subleased;
3. Name and address of the sublessee.
(2) The period for which a sublessee can make use of and profit from the relevant
administrative property in a case falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 30 (2) of
the Act shall not exceed the remainder of the period for which the sublessor is permitted
to use that property. <Amended on Sep. 29, 2020>
(3) "Institutions prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as local public enterprises" in
Article 30 (2) 2 of the Act means any of the following institutions: <Newly Inserted on Sep.
29, 2020>
1. A local public enterprise established under the Local Public Enterprises Act (hereinafter
referred to as "local public enterprise");
2. A public institution established under Article 4 of the Act on the Management of Public
Institutions (hereinafter referred to as "public institution");
3.  A  public  interest  corporation  established  under  Article  4  (1)  of  the  Act  on  the
Establishment  and  Operation  of  Public  Interest  Corporations;
4. A social enterprise defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Social Enterprise
Promotion Act (hereinafter referred to as "social enterprise");
5.  A  cooperative  defined  in  subparagraph  1  of  Article  2  of  the  Framework  Act  on
Cooperatives  and  a  social  cooperative  defined  in  subparagraph  3  of  that  Article
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  "social  cooperative");

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            19                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
6. A self-support company under Article 18 of the National Basic Living Security Act
(hereinafter referred to as "self-support company");
7. A community company defined in Article 2 (1) 9 of the Special Act on Promotion of and
Support for Urban Regeneration (hereinafter referred to as "community company");
8. An institution similar to those under subparagraphs 1 through 7, which is capable of
making use of or profiting from State property to the extent not impeding the public
value and utility value of State property.
[Title Amended on Sep. 29, 2020]
 
Article 27 (Methods of Permission for Use) (1) If one or more effective bids are made in
competitive bidding under Article 31 (1) of the Act, a successful bidder shall be a person
who has submitted the highest bidding price.
(2) If administrative property falls under any of the following subparagraphs, the person to
be granted permission for use thereof may be determined by means of a restricted or
designated tender pursuant to the proviso of Article 31 (1) of the Act: <Amended on Apr.
1, 2011>
1. Where it is necessary to conduct bidding by designating the owners of land adjacent to
the relevant property in view of the use, etc. of that property;
1-2. Where an application for the permission for use pursuant to paragraph (3) has
occurred at the same time;
2. Other cases where it is necessary to restrict or designate those eligible to be granted
permission for use in view of the location, form, purpose of use, etc. of the relevant
property or the purpose, nature, etc. of the relevant contract.
(3) If administrative property falls under any of the following, the person to be granted
permission for use thereof may be determined by means of a private contract pursuant to
the proviso of Article 31 (1) of the Act: <Amended on Jun. 26, 2018; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. Where the permission is rendered to use that property for a residential purpose;
2. Where the permission is rendered for an actual cultivator to use that property for
farming purposes;
3. Where it is necessary that the acts of use and benefit are kept secret for reason of
diplomacy or national defense;
4. Where the permission is rendered to use that property for the purpose of disaster
restoration or relief as any natural disaster or other inevitable cause has occurred;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            20                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4-2. Where the permission is rendered for a local government or a local public enterprise
to use that property as infrastructure under Article 18 (1) 3 of the Act;
5. Where the permission is rendered for a person subject to exemption from usage fees
under Article 34 (1) of the Act or any other Act to use that property;
6. Where the permission is rendered for a person owning property jointly with the State to
use the portion of property corresponding to the State's share;
7. Where the permission to use is rendered for less than six months in consideration of the
purpose of use or seasonal factors without interfering with administration or disposal of
State property;
8. Where bidding is unsuccessful twice;
9. Other cases where it is deemed impractical to put out the property for competitive
bidding in view of the location, form, purpose of use, etc. of the property or the purpose,
nature, etc. of the relevant contract.
(4) A bid announcement shall clarify the matters necessary to put up administrative
property for competitive bidding, such as the scheduled amount of usage fees for that
property,  and  the  details  of  the  announcement  shall  be  notified  to  applicants  for
permission  for  use  thereof.
(5) With respect to the administrative property for which a successful bidder cannot be
found until two rounds of general competitive bidding, the head of a central government
agency may adjust the scheduled amount of usage fees therefor so as to reduce the
amount by 10/100 each time from the third bidding, with the lowest limit of 20/100 of the
first scheduled usage fees. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
 
Article 28 (Register of Permission for Use) (1) The head of a central government agency shall
prepare a register of permission for use of the administrative property under its jurisdiction
and shall enter matters falling under each of the following subparagraphs in such register:
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. Indication of property;
2. Purpose of use;
3. Name and address of each person granted permission for use;
4. Conditions of permission;
5. Period for which use is permitted;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            21                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
6. Usage fees;
7. Date of permission;
8. Where any person granted permission for use of any donated property allows another
person to use and benefit from such property after obtaining approval from the head of
a central government agency in a case falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article
30 (2) of the Act, the matters relating thereto.
(2) A register of permission for use under paragraph (1) shall be prepared and managed in
a way by which electronic processing is possible unless there is a compelling reason not to
do so.
 
Article 29 (Methods of Calculating Usage Fee Rate and Fees) (1) Annual usage fees provided
for in Article 32 (1) of the Act shall be computed by multiplying the value of the relevant
property by a rate of at least 50/1000, on a monthly, daily, or hourly basis: Provided, That
where property is used for any of the following purposes, such fees shall be computed by
multiplying the value of the relevant property by the relevant applicable rate, but the office
of general administration may determine and publicly notify limits applied to such rate in
cases falling under the proviso of subparagraph 6: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5,
2013; May 26, 2015; Jun. 26, 2018; Mar. 12, 2019; Mar. 31, 2020; Jul. 31, 2020; Sep. 29,
2020; Feb. 2, 2021; Jun. 28, 2022; Dec. 30, 2022; Dec. 12, 2023>
1. For the purpose of farming (including facilities referred to in Article 2 (3) 2 of the
Enforcement Decree of theFarmland Act for direct use) or stockbreeding: At least
10/1000;
1-2. For the purpose of direct use (including the direct use of the following facilities for
conducting fishery business, etc.) for fishery business under the Fisheries Act, inland
fisheries under the Inland Water Fisheries Act, or aquaculture business under the
Aquaculture Industry Development Act (hereafter in this subparagraph, referred to as
"fishery business, etc."): At least 10/1000:
(a) Facilities for keeping equipment used for fishery business, etc., such as fishing gear;
(b) Fisheries resources promotional facilities, such as fisheries seed production facilities
and fisheries seed cultivation places;
(c) Facilities for drying products produced from fishery business, etc., convenient facilities
to store such products, and facilities for shellfish shucking;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            22                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(d) Facilities for seawater intake, drainage, and filtering;
(e) Facilities for loading and unloading (excluding facilities for the storage of products) to
move products produced from fishery business, etc. or equipment used for fishery
business, etc. from a ship to the land;
(f) Other facilities necessary for conducting fishery business, etc., which are determined
and publicly notified by the Minister of Economy and Finance;
1-3. Where it is used directly for the forest product manufacturing business or the forest
growing business under the Act on the Operation of Direct Payment Program for
Promoting Public Functions of Forestry and Forests: At least 10/1000;
2. For residential purposes: At least 20/1000 (at least 10/1000 if used for residential
purposes by any recipient of assistance defined in subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the
National Basic Living Security Act);
3. For administrative purposes: At least 25/1000;
3-2. For use by a local government to implement its administrative purposes: At least
25/1000;
3-3. For use by a local government or a local public enterprise as infrastructure referred to
in Article 18 (1) 3 of the Act: At least 25/1000;
4. For promoting public officials’ welfare: At least 40/1000;
5. For the purpose of direct use for any social welfare project defined in subparagraph 1 of
Article 2 of the Social Welfare Services Act, or for direct use for the essential business of
any religious group referred to in Article 5 (1) 1 and 2 of the Enforcement Decree of the
Act on the Registration of Real Estate under Actual Titleholder's Name: at least 25/1000;
6. For the purpose of direct use for any type of business (excluding a type of business
falling under the proviso of Article 5 (1) of the Support for Small and Medium Enterprise
Establishment Act) managed by a micro enterprise defined in Article 2 of the Framework
Act on Micro Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as "micro enterprise"): At least 30/1000;
Provided, That a rate of at least 10/1000 shall apply where the office of general
administration determines and publicly notifies a period to ease managerial burden
caused by a natural disaster, disaster defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the
Framework Act on the Management of Disasters and Safety, economic depression, mass
unemployment, etc.;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            23                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
6-2. For the purpose of direct use for any type of business (excluding a type of business
falling under the proviso of Article 5 (1) of the Support for Small and Medium Enterprise
Establishment Act) managed by a small and medium enterprise defined in Article 2 of the
Framework  Act  on  Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  (excluding  micro  enterprises;
hereinafter referred to as "small and medium enterprise) and in cases where the office of
general administration determines and publicly notifies a period to ease managerial
burden caused by a disaster defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the Framework Act
on the Management of Disasters and Safety, economic depression, mass unemployment,
etc.: At least 30/1000;
7. For the purpose of direct use by any enterprise or cooperatives falling under any of the
following  cases  to  achieve  objectives  of  business  under  the  relevant  statutes  or
regulations:  At  least  25/1000:
(a) A social enterprise;
(b) A cooperative and a social cooperative;
(c) A self-support company;
(d) A community company.
(2) In computing usage fees under paragraph (1), the value of the relevant property shall
be calculated by the following methods. In such cases, the value of property referred to in
subparagraphs 1 and 2 and the main clause of subparagraph 3 shall be determined
annually during the permitted period of use, and the value of property referred to in the
proviso of subparagraph 3 shall be applicable only for up to three years after the date of
appraisal and assessment thereof: <Amended on Jun. 19, 2012; Dec. 30, 2013; Jun. 30,
2016; Aug. 31, 2016; Jan. 21, 2022>
1. For land: To apply the officially assessed individual land price (referring to the officially
assessed  price  of  the  relevant  land  under  Article  10  of  the  Act  on  the  Public
Announcement of Real Estate Values, and if such price is unavailable, the amount
calculated based on the officially assessed land price under Article 8 of that Act;
hereinafter the same shall apply) as at the time of determining the value of the relevant
property to calculate usage fees;
2. For housing: To apply the price of housing as at the time of determining the value of
the relevant property to calculate usage fees, as classified below:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            24                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(a) A detached house: The individual housing price of the relevant house publicly
announced under Article 17 of the Act on the Public Announcement of Real Estate
Values;
(b) Multi-family housing: The collective housing price of the relevant housing publicly
announced under Article 18 of the Act on the Public Announcement of Real Estate
Values;
(c) Housing for which no individual housing price or multi-family housing price is publicly
notified: The standard market price determined under the proviso of Article 4 (1) of
the Local Tax Act;
3. Other property: To apply the standard market price determined under Article 4 (2) of the
Local Tax Act: Provided, That the price assessed by an appraisal corporation, etc. shall be
applied if no standard market price is available.
(3) The amount of usage fees to be collected when granting permission for farming
purposes may be calculated under paragraph (1) 1, or an amount equivalent to 1/10 of the
income from agricultural products per unit area of an agricultural household of the
relevant City/Do (statistics of Gyeonggi-do shall apply to Seoul Special Metropolitan City
and Incheon Metropolitan City; those of Chungcheongnam-do to Daejeon Metropolitan
City  and  Sejong  Special  Self-Governing  City;  those  of  Jeollanam-do  to  Gwangju
Metropolitan City; those of Gyeongsangbug-do to Daegu Metropolitan City; and those of
Gyeongsangnam-do to Busan Metropolitan City and Ulsan Metropolitan City, respectively)
based on the farm household economy survey and statistics compiled and published by a
statistics compiling agency referred to in subparagraph 3 of Article 3 of the Statistics Act,
whichever is smaller. <Amended on June 19, 2012; December 12, 2023>
(4) In cases of granting permission for use of airspace above the surface or underground
of land owned by the State, the usage fee shall be the amount calculated by multiplying
the usage fee calculated pursuant to paragraph (1) by an appropriate proportion in
consideration of the extent of interfering with the use of the land due to the use of the
relevant land. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 26, 2018>
(5) Usage fees calculated under paragraph (1) shall be disclosed to the public, and a bid
offered below the usage fees disclosed shall be null and void. <Amended on Jun. 26,
2018>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            25                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(6) Where granting permission for use by means of competitive bidding, the usage fees for
the first year shall be determined at the highest bidding price, and those for the periods
from the second year and thereafter (limited to the period during which the permission for
use is valid without being renewed) shall be calculated using the following formula:
Provided, That where the office of general administration determines and publicly notifies a
period pursuant to the proviso of paragraph (1) 6 and subparagraph 6-2 of that paragraph,
the usage fees for the relevant period shall be the fees calculated pursuant to the proviso
of subparagraph 6 of that paragraph and subparagraph 6-2 of that paragraph, respectively.
<Amended on Jun. 26, 2018; Mar. 31, 2020; Jul. 31, 2020>
[(Usage fees for the first year determined by bidding) × (the price of property in the
relevant year, calculated under paragraph (2)) ÷ (the price of property at the time of
bidding)]
(7) Where granting permission for the use of preservation property, if specific management
expenses are incurred in maintaining and preserving the relevant preservation property, the
usage fees may be collected after deducting management expenses. <Amended on Jun.
26, 2018>
(8) In cases falling under paragraph (7), if the relevant preservation property is damaged,
the amount deducted as management expenses shall be additionally collected. <Amended
on Jun. 26, 2018>
(9) The scope of management expenses referred to in paragraph (7) shall be prescribed by
Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on Jun. 26, 2018>
 
Article 30 (Timing of Payment of Usage Fees) (1) Usage fees provided for in Articles 32 (1)
and 65-9 (1) of the Act shall be paid in advance. <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013>
(2) The deadline for payment of usage fees provided for in paragraph (1) shall be within 60
days from the date on which the permission for use is granted, but shall be prior to
undertaking any use or benefit: Provided, That if it is deemed that it is difficult to pay the
usage fees by the deadline for any inevitable reason, the head of a central government
agency may determine a separate deadline for such payment. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), where the office of general administration
determines and publicly notifies the subject matters and periods of payment to ease
managerial burden caused by a natural disaster, disaster defined in subparagraph 1 of
Article 3 of the Framework Act on the Management of Disasters and Safety, economic

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            26                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
depression, mass unemployment, etc., the payment of the usage fees under Article 32 (1)
of the Act whose payment deadlines arrive for the relevant period or whose payment is
notified may be postponed by up to one year, as prescribed by Public Notice. <Newly
Inserted on Jul. 31, 2020>
(4) "Less than the amount prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 32 (1)
of the Act means less than 200,000 won. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2017; Jul. 31, 2020>
(5) Where usage fees are to be paid in installments under the former part of Article 32 (2)
of the Act, the payment may be allowed to be made in 12 or fewer installments per year
only if the usage fees exceed 500 thousand won. In such cases, the interest calculated by
applying the interest rate announced by the office of general administration taking into
account the average deposit interest rate for a time deposit with one year maturity in a
commercial bank (hereinafter referred to as "announced interest rate") shall be levied on
the remaining amount. <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013; Mar. 2, 2017; Jun. 26, 2018; Jul. 31,
2020; Dec. 30, 2022>
(6) "Above than the amount prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the latter part of Article
32 (2) of the Act means 10 million won or more, and "limit of the amount prescribed by
Presidential Decree" means the limit of the amount equivalent to 50/100 of annual usage
fees. <Amended on Mar. 2, 2017; Jul. 31, 2020>
 
Article 31 (Adjustment of Usage Fees) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 33
(1) of the Act means where the usage fees for the relevant year increase as follows
compared with the usage fees for the preceding year (where the annual usage fees are
changed pursuant to the proviso of Article 29 (1) 6 and subparagraph 6-2 of that
paragraph, referring to the annual usage fees before such fees are changed). In such cases,
the methods of calculating the usage fees for the relevant year are as classified in the
following subparagraphs: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26, 2018; Jul. 31, 2020; Dec. 12,
2023>
1. If the usage fees subject to either of Article 29 (1) 1, 1-2, 1-3, and 2 are increased by at
least 5 percent (including cases where the permission for use is renewed), an amount
increased by 5 percent compared with the previous year;
2. If the usage fees are not subject to subparagraph 1, a case falling under any of the
following:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            27                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(a) Where the usage fee of a commercial building under Article 2 (1) of the Commercial
Building Lease Protection Act increases by five percent or more (excluding the case of
the year in which the permission for use is renewed; but in cases where the permission
for use is renewed two or more times, excluding the initial year of each renewal period
corresponding to the second or subsequent renewal period): An amount increased by
five percent, compared to the previous year;
(b) Where the usage fees are increased by nine percent or more (excluding the case of
the first year in which the permission for use is renewed): An amount increased by
nine percent compared with the previous year.
 
Article 32 (Exemption from or Reduction of Usage Fees) (1) Exemption from usage fees as
provided for in Article 34 (1) 1 of the Act may be made until the total amount of the usage
fees reaches the price of the property donated, but no period from exemption shall exceed
20 years.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the period of exemption from usage fee of the property
in Article 5 (1) 6 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as "intellectual property") shall be 20
years. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013>
(3) Where any building or other establishment is donated, the usage fees for the building
or establishment site shall be added to the total amount of usage fees under paragraph
(1). <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013>
(4) The price of any donated property referred to in paragraph (1), the price of the
property that forms the basis for calculation of the usage fees, and the price of the site
that forms the basis for calculation of the usage fees to be added to the total amount of
usage fees under paragraph (3), shall be calculated by applying Article 29 (2) mutatis
mutandis, on the basis of the timing of an original permission for use. <Amended on Apr.
5, 2013>
(5) Where a local government seeks exemption from the usage fees in accordance with
Article 34 (1) 2 of the Act, it shall submit the plan for acquisition of the property to the
head of a central government agency. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
(6) Where the head of a central government agency, in receipt of the acquisition plan
submitted in accordance with paragraph (5), intends to exempt the usage fees, the period
of permission for use shall not exceed one year. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5,
2013>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            28                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(7) "Administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree including property which is
less useful or requires repair" in Article 34 (3) of the Act means administrative property
falling under any of the following, and the criteria for exemption from or reduction of
usage fees under the same paragraph shall be as follows: <Newly Inserted on Jun. 26,
2018>
1. In the case of land the use of which is difficult due to reasons such as difficulty in
passing or slopes or irregularity, and the area of which is 100 square meters or less and
the value of which is 10 million won or less: Reduction in usage fees by 30/100;
2. In the case of land the area of which is 30 square meters or less and the value of which
is one million won or less: Reduction in usage fees by 30/100;
3. Where a person obtaining permission to use a building falling under any of the
following  cases  pays  for  expenses  for  repairing  establishments:  Reduction  in  or
exemption from usage fees by the amount equivalent to expenses for repair (only for
one time):
(a) Where a building constructed at least 20 years ago requires repairs for easy use;
(b) Where a building of which the safety rating under Article 12 of the Enforcement
Decree of the Special Act on the Safety Control and Maintenance of Establishment is C
or less according to attached Table 8 of that Decree requires repairs for safety control;
(c) Where a building damaged by natural or other disasters requires additional repairs.
[Title Amended on Jun. 26, 2018]
 
Article 33 (Scope of Public Organizations) "Public organization defined by Presidential
Decree" in Article 34 (1) 3 of the Act means any legal entity that falls under any of the
following subparagraphs:
1. A legal entity, the capital of which is composed entirely of investments from the
Government pursuant to statutes;
2. A legal entity, the fundamental property of which is composed entirely of contributions
from the Government pursuant to statutes.
 
Article 34 (Renewal of Permission for Use, etc.) (1) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree"
in the main clause of Article 35 (2) of the Act means cases that fall under any of the
following subparagraphs: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            29                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Where the use of administrative property is beyond the scope of use permitted under
Article 30 (1) of the Act;
2. In cases falling under any subparagraph of Article 36 (1) of the Act;
3. Where the property subject to permission for use needs to be used directly by the State
or a local government for official or public purpose;
4. Where any condition of permission for use is violated;
5.  Where  it  is  deemed  necessary  for  the  head  of  a  central  government  agency  to
administer and dispose of the relevant property by any means, other than permission for
use.
(2) If permission for use is renewed pursuant to Article 35 (2) of the Act, the annual usage
fees for the renewed period of permission for use shall be the larger amount from among
the amount falling under the following subparagraphs: Provided, That where the office of
general administration determines and publicly notifies a period pursuant to the proviso of
Article 29 (1) 6 and Article 29 (1) 6-2, the usage fees for the relevant period shall be the
fees  calculated  pursuant  to  the  proviso  of  subparagraph  6  of  that  paragraph  and
subparagraph 6-2 of that paragraph, respectively: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Mar. 31,
2020; Jul. 31, 2020>
1. The usage fees calculated pursuant to Article 29;
2. The usage fees calculated pursuant to the following formula:
(이미지 있음)
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), where permission for use has been obtained by private
contract pursuant to Article 27 (3) (excluding cases falling under subparagraph 8 of that
paragraph) and the permission for use has been renewed, the annual usage fees for the
renewed permission for use shall be calculated pursuant to Article 29. <Newly Inserted on
Dec. 12, 2023>
 
Article 35 (Compensation for Loss Resulting from Withdrawal of Permission for Use) The
amount of compensation under Article 36 (3) of the Act shall be as follows: <Amended on
Jan. 5, 2021>
1. Facility costs for the remainder of the permission period or costs required to move
facilities (including transplanting trees; hereafter the same shall apply in this Article)
based on standards as at the time of withdrawing the permission for use;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            30                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Where facilities are moved elsewhere or new facilities are installed due to the withdrawal
of the permission for use, the appraised amount of a loss resulting from the impossibility
of doing business for that period.
 
Article 36 (Additional Dues) (1) Additional dues provided for in Article 39 of the Act shall be
decided when the permission for use is granted.
(2) Additional dues under paragraph (1) shall be collected by the head of a central
government agency or by a person to whom the relevant authority is delegated under
Article 28 of the Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) Where additional dues under paragraph (1) are collected, the amount, period for
payment, place for payment, and basis for calculation of such additional dues shall be
notified in writing.
(4) The period for payment under paragraph (3) shall be within 60 days from the date of
notification.
 
Article 37 (Abolition of Use) (1) Deleted. <Jun. 26, 2018>
(2)  The  head  of  a  central  government  agency  shall  remove  or  scrap  buildings,
establishments, machinery, or tools, which are administrative property subject to removing
or scraping, without delay after the use thereof is discontinued, and transfer them to the
office of general administration under Article 40 (1) of the Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011;
Jun. 26, 2018>
 
Article 37-2 (Applications for Pre-Contracts for Preferential Use) Where the head of a central
government agency intends to apply for a pre-contract for preferential use pursuant to
Article 40-2 (1) of the Act, he or she shall submit an application stating the following
details, to the office of general administrations, accompanied by a business plan:
1. Indication of property;
2. Purpose of use;
3. Plan for use;
4. Other matters deemed necessary by the office of general administration.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Sep. 29, 2020]
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            31                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
            CHAPTER IV GENERAL PROPERTY
               SECTION 1 Common Provisions
 
Article 38 (Agency of Administration and Disposal) (1) The office of general administration
may entrust its work concerning disposal of securities to the head of a central government
agency or to any of the following persons:
1. A corporation that issued such securities;
2. A bank under Article 2 (1) 2 of the Banking Act (including any institution deemed a bank
under Article 5 of the same Act);
3. An investment trader, an investment broker, or a collective investment business operator
under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act;
4. The Deposit Insurance Corporation established under the Depositor Protection Act;
5. The Industrial Bank of Korea established under the Industrial Bank of Korea Act;
6. The Korea Development Bank established under the Korea Development Bank Act;
7. The Export-Import Bank of Korea established under the Export-Import Bank of Korea Act;
8. The Bank of Korea established under the Bank of Korea Act;
9. Deleted. <Dec. 30, 2014>
(2) Deleted. <Apr. 5, 2013>
(3) In accordance with Article 42 (1) of the Act, the office of general administration shall
entrust the administrative and disposal-related affairs (including the affairs of litigation
related to the administration and disposal; hereafter the same shall apply in this Article) of
the following general property and the affairs on litigation related to disposal of the
general property managed by the concerned office of general administration (excluding
the affairs on litigation under paragraph (5) 2) which were already disposed of to the Korea
Asset Management Corporation: <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013; May 10, 2016; Dec. 30, 2022>
1. General property acquired from in-kind payment of a national tax;
2. The property transferred to the office of general administration, after disuse of the
property pursuant to the main clause of Article 40 (2) of the Act;
3. Deleted; <May 10, 2016>
4. The securities acquired as a result of the investment pursuant to the former part of
Article 59-2 (2) of the Act;
5. The securities designated by the office of general administration to be managed in the
method of loan pursuant to Article 47;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            32                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
6. The property donated in kind to the State due upon completion of liquidation of a
dissolved corporation provided for in Article 79;
7. Other property designated by the office of general administration for the purpose of
efficient administration and disposal of general property.
(4)  The  office  of  general  administration  shall  entrust  the  affairs  regarding  the
administration and disposal of general property under Article 8 (3) of the Act entrusted
pursuant to Article 42 (2) of the Act to the Korea Asset Management Corporation. <Newly
Inserted on Sep. 29, 2020>
(5) The office of general administration and the head of a central government agency shall
entrust the following affairs pursuant to Article 42 (1) or (3) of the Act to the Korea Asset
Management Corporation and the Korea Land and Housing Corporation under the Korea
Land and Housing Corporation Act: <Newly Inserted on May 10, 2016; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. Affairs related to the management and disposition of general property to be developed
under Article 59 of the Act;
2. Affairs on litigation related to the disposition of the general property falling under the
jurisdiction of the office of general administration and the head of a central government
agency  which  were  already  disposed  of  as  the  general  property  pursuant  to
subparagraph  1.
(6) Where property is entrusted pursuant to paragraphs (1), (3), and (5), the entrusted
entity shall indicate the provision on which the entrustment is based, and the entity shall
administer or dispose of the property in the name of the entrusted entity. <Amended on
Apr. 5, 2013; May 10, 2016; Sep. 29, 2020>
(7) Where the affairs regarding the administration and disposal of general property are
entrusted in accordance with paragraph (3) through (5), the detailed contents and
procedures thereof such as entrustment fee shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on May 10, 2016; Sep. 29, 2020>
[This Article Wholly Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 39 (Reversion of Rent) (1) "Property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 42 (6)
of the Act means property falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Real estate and appurtenances thereto;
2. Securities.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            33                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) Deleted. <Apr. 5, 2013>
(3) In cases under paragraph (1) 2, the scope of the proceeds from sale to revert to any
entity that falls under any subparagraph of Article 38 (1) shall be within necessary expenses
involved in the course of sale. In such cases, the office of general administration may make
an additional reversion of agency fees within the limits of 10/100 of the necessary
expenses after consultation with the entrusted entity. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(4) Deleted. <Apr. 5, 2013>
(5) Deleted. <Apr. 5, 2013>
 
Article 40 (Methods of Disposal) (1) If at least one effective bids are made in competitive
bidding conducted under Article 43 (1) of the Act, the successful bidder shall be the
person who has submitted the highest bidding price.
(2) General property may be disposed of by means of a restricted or designated tender
pursuant to the proviso of Article 43 (1) of the Act, in any of the following cases:
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 19, 2012>
1. Where it is necessary to conduct bidding by designating the owners of land adjacent to
the relevant property in view of the use, etc. of that property;
2.  In  conducting  bidding  for  farmland,  where  it  is  necessary  to  designate  farmers
recognized as actual tillers by the Special Self-Governing City Mayor, the Special Self-
Governing Province Governor, or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu (referring to an autonomous
Gu; hereinafter the same shall apply), or to limit those eligible to participate in the
bidding to such farmers;
3. Where property is sold upon specifying its use under Article 49 of the Act;
4. Where applications for a private contract referred to in paragraph (3) compete mutually.
(3) General property may be disposed of by means of a private contract pursuant to the
proviso of Article 43 (1) of the Act, in any of the following cases. In such cases, the
disposal price shall not be less than the estimated price: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec.
8, 2011; Dec. 28, 2011; Jan. 25, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Apr. 5, 2013; Dec. 30, 2013; Jan. 7,
2014; Dec. 22, 2015; Aug. 11, 2016; Sep. 29, 2020; Jun. 28, 2022; Jul. 7, 2023; Dec. 7, 2023;
Dec. 12, 2023; Dec. 19, 2023>
1. Where it is necessary to dispose of general property confidentially for diplomatic or
national defense reasons;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            34                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Where property is disposed of for the purpose of disaster recovery or relief in any
natural disaster or extenuating circumstances;
3. Where property is sold to a person entitled to get concession or take out interest-free
loan thereof;
4. Where property is disposed of to the relevant government in order for the local
government to directly use it for official or public purposes;
5. Where property used by a public institution for office work or business purposes is
disposed of by the public institution;
6. Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
7. Where the sale of property is pre-contracted on condition that a project of exploitation,
filling, reclamation or afforestation of such property be completed pursuant to Article 45
(1) of the Act, by the deadline designated under paragraph (3) of the same Article, and
the completed portion is subsequently sold to the counterparty to the precontract;
8. Where State property to be developed is sold to a special-purpose company for
development of State-owned land established under the former part of Article 59-2 (2) of
the Act (hereinafter referred to as "special-purpose company for development of State-
owned land");
9. Where any concealed State property is sold to any person who has returned the
property to the State pursuant to Article 78 of the Act;
10. Where the property falling under Article 3 of the Addenda to the amended State
Property Act (Act No. 3482) is sold to an initial purchaser of the property from the State
(including an heir or a successor of the purchaser);
11. Where State-owned land within a relocation complex that the State has developed or
plans to develop for relocation purposes to implement various projects, such as a
settlement project for the decentralization of population, is sold to the relocating
residents;
12. Where State property is sold to any third nation that needs to use the State property
as offices of its embassy or consulate or other diplomatic facilities equivalent thereto;
13. Where the State property co-owned by the State and a non-State entity is sold to the
entity that co-owns the share of such property;
14. Where any of the following State-owned land lacking usefulness as State property and
is occupied by or used for the building owned by a non-Sate entity, is sold to the owner

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            35                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
of the building and the space of the sold land does not exceed twice the floor space of
the building:
(a) The State-owned land that has been occupied by a building owned by a non-State
entity on or before December 31, 2012;
(b) The State-owned land where the land and a building on such land had been owned
by the same person, and the ownership of which is transferred to the State upon a
court ruling, etc.;
15. Where property occupied or used directly by a religious group for religious purposes,
on or before December 31, 2012, is sold to the property’s occupant or user;
16. Where a State-owned building or structure built on private land is sold to the private
land owner considering the location, size, shape, use, etc. of the building or structure;
17. Where State-owned land not sufficient to be used alone, considering its location, size,
shape, purpose of use, etc., is sold to the owner of private land which borders the State-
owned land;
18. Where any support project, etc. performed under any Act falls under any of the
following:
(a) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(b) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(c) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(d) Where property necessary for implementing a development project pursuant to
Article 55 of the Tourism Promotion Act is sold to the relevant project implementer;
(e) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(f) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(g) Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
(h) Where a parcel of the farmland provided for in the Farmland Act is sold to the person
who has cultivated State-owned land for at least five consecutive years after obtaining
loans (including permission for use) of the State-owned land;
(i) Where State-owned land to be included with a private road to be built pursuant to
Article 4 of the Private Road Act, is sold to a person who builds such private road;
(j) Where State-owned land located in an industrial complex defined in Article 2 of the
Industrial Sites and Development Act or a neighboring residential area is sold to a
person who intends to open a workplace day care center under Article 14 of the Infant

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            36                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Care Act and is recommended by the Minister of Health and Welfare, with a limit of
1,400 square meters;
(k) Where State-owned land located in a factory site in the scale requiring approval for
its establishment pursuant to Article 13 of the Industrial Cluster Development and
Factory Establishment Act is sold to a person approved to establish, etc. a factory [only
where the space of the State-owned land is less than 50 percent of the total factory
site (no limit on the percentage of inclusion of State-owned land shall apply to any
person whose business plan is approved under Article 45 of the Support for Small and
Medium Enterprise Establishment Act)];
(l) Where State-owned land, which is to be sold pursuant to Article 15, 19 or 30 of the
Housing Act, is sold to the relevant project entity [only in cases where the space of the
State-owned land to be sold is less than 50 percent of the total space for the
construction of the relevant residential houses (A limit of the percentage of inclusion
of the State-owned land, shall not apply to re-building on the State-owned land
occupied by collecting housing referred to in Article 3 of Enforcement Decree of the
Housing Act.)];
(m) Where property being used as a site for a school defined in any subparagraph of
Article 2 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, or property being used as a
site for a university defined in any subparagraph of Article 2 of the Higher Education
Act or property located in the site for the dormitory intended to be built by such
university's educational foundation is sold to the aforementioned school, university, or
educational foundation;
(n) Where property to be disposed of for a specific project purpose or which shall be
sold to a specific person pursuant to other Acts, is sold to the implementer of the
relevant project or to the person designated by such Acts;
19. Where equity securities of the relevant corporation are sold to the investors, such as
stockholders of a government-invested corporation;
20. Where equity securities of the relevant corporation are sold to the investors, such as
stockholders of a special-purpose company for development of State-owned land;
21. Where securities are sold, or the sale of securities is entrusted or delegated, to any of
the following persons:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            37                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(a) An investment trader, an investment broker, or a collective investment business
operator provided for in the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act;
(b) A bank defined in Article 2 (1) 2 of the Banking Act (including any institution deemed
a bank under Article 5 of the same Act);
(c) An insurance company provided for in the Insurance Business Act;
(d) A specialized new technology venture financing company defined in subparagraph
14-4 of Article 2 of the Specialized Credit Finance Business Act;
(e) A venture investment company defined in subparagraph 10 of Article 2 of the Venture
Investment Promotion Act;
(f) A company referred to in Article 50 (1) 5 of the Venture Investment Promotion Act;
(g) A person falling under any subparagraph of Article 70 (1) of the Venture Investment
Promotion Act;
22. Where equity securities are sold to a corporation that manages and operates any Fund
established by the relevant Act;
23.  Where  equity  securities  of  a  government-invested  corporation  are  sold  to  a
corporation, association, or organization publicly announced by the Minister of Economy
and Finance as related to business of the government-invested corporation, to enhance
the management efficiency of the government-invested corporation;
24. Where equity securities of a government-invested corporation are sold to persons
affiliated with an employee stock ownership association (hereinafter referred to as
"member of an employee stock ownership association" in this Article) defined in
subparagraph 4 of Article 2 of the Framework Act on Labor Welfare;
25. Where bidding has been unsuccessful on more than two occasions, or where a contract
may be concluded at a price substantially advantageous to the State;
26. Where offering competitive bidding is impractical because of the characteristics of
intellectual property which requires a particular person’s technology or equipment in
order to implement thereof (referring to the implementation in subparagraph 3 of Article
2 of the Patent Act, subparagraph 3 of Article 2 of the Utility Model Act, subparagraph 7
of Article 2 of the Design Protection Act);
27. Where it is impractical to expose the relevant property to competition in terms of the
location, type, use, etc. of such property, or the purpose, character, etc. of the relevant
contract;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            38                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
28. Where equity securities acquired by national tax payment in kind are sold to an heir
who makes payment in kind, meeting all the following requirements:
(a) A corporation that issues equity securities shall be a small or medium enterprise
under Article 3 (1) of the Enforcement Decree of the Framework Act on Small and
Medium Enterprises or a middle-standing enterprise under subparagraph 1 of Article 2
of  the  Special  Act  on  the  Promotion  of  Growth  and  the  Strengthening  of
Competitiveness of Middle-Standing Enterprises (excluding an enterprise whose
average revenue for the three years immediately preceding the date of filing an
application for reserving purchase and the date of filing an application for purchase
under item (d) exceeds 300 billion won);
(b) A decedent who owned equity securities continuously managed the corporation
issuing the equity securities for at least 10 years and served as the representative
director during any of the following period: Provided, That the cases of (ii) shall only
apply where the heir has succeeded as the representative director to replace the
decedent and continues to serve from the date of succession until the date of
commencement of inheritance:
(c) An heir who makes payment in kind, shall be the largest stockholder and the
representative director of the corporation issuing the equity securities;
(d) A person who makes payment in kind under item (c) shall file an application for
reserving purchase within one year from the date of permitting payment in kind under
Article 73 of the Inheritance Tax and Gift Tax Act (hereafter referred to as "date of
permission for payment in kind" in this Article) and shall file an application for
purchase within five years from the date of permission for payment in kind.
(4)  Where  property  is  sold  by  private  contract  pursuant  to  paragraph  (3)  15  and
subparagraph 18 (i) and (j), if the purchaser fails to use such property for the agreed
purposes within two years from the date of the sale, or disuses such property within 10
years from the date of the sale, a special agreement shall be registered providing that the
sale contract be rescinded pursuant to subparagraph 3 of Article 52 of the Act. <Newly
Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec. 12, 2023>
(5)  Where  equity  securities  are  sold  to  members  of  an  employee  stock  ownership
association by private contract pursuant to paragraph (3) 24, the sum total of the equity
securities already owned by the members of the employee stock ownership association

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            39                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
and the equity securities to be acquired by such members by private contract shall not
exceed 20/100 of the total number of equity securities issued by the relevant government-
invested corporation. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(6) Each piece of property deemed impractical to be privately contracted due to an
informal or court dispute, or for other reasons, shall be disposed of by competitive
bidding, notwithstanding paragraph (3). <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 41 (Methods of Selling Securities) "Means prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the
proviso of Article 43 (1) of the Act means any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Public sale under Article 9 (9) of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act;
2. Sale of securities traded on the securities exchange under Article 9 (13) of the Financial
Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (hereinafter referred to as "securities
exchange");
3. Subscription to a public tender offer under Article 133 of the Financial Investment
Services and Capital Markets Act;
4. Exercise of appraisal rights under the Commercial Act;
5. Sale of securities under other Acts and subordinate statutes.
 
Article 42 (Estimated Price of Property Subject to Disposal) (1) In disposing of general
property except for securities, the estimated price thereof shall be determined based upon
market price. In such cases, the methods of determining the estimated price are as follows:
<Amended on Jun. 30, 2016; Jan. 21, 2022>
1. Where the registered price is at least 30 million won (excluding cases falling under
subparagraph 2): The price calculated by averaging the values appraised by two appraisal
corporations, etc.;
2. Where the registered price is less than 30 million won or the general property is
disposed of to a local government or public institution: The value appraised by one
appraisal corporation, etc.
(2) The value appraised by an appraisal corporation, etc. referred to in paragraph (1) shall
not apply after one year passes from the date of appraisal. <Amended on Jun. 30, 2016;
Jan. 21, 2022>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            40                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(3) If a piece of general property for which no successful bidder can be found until two
rounds of general competitive bidding, the head of the relevant central government
agency, etc. may reduce the estimated price by 10 percent each round from the third
bidding, with 50 percent as the lowest limit of the first estimated selling price. <Amended
on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
1. Deleted; <Apr. 1, 2011>
2. Deleted. <Apr. 1, 2011>
(4) Deleted. <Mar. 12, 2019>
(5) Where a piece of general property is sold to a person who has exploited, filled,
reclaimed, or afforested the general property under Article 45 of the Act or occupied and
improved such general property on other justifiable grounds, a price calculated by
deducting an amount equivalent to improvement expenses from the price of the property
as at the time of sale reflecting such improvement shall be proceeds from sale: Provided,
That if the original value of the property in an unimproved condition as at the date of
appraisal for sale, exceeds the amount after deducting the improvement expenses, the
proceeds  from  sale  shall  be  determined  at  a  price  higher  than  the  original  value.
<Amended  on  Apr.  1,  2011>
(6) Article 44-2 (1) of the Act shall apply mutatis mutandis where a piece of general
property exploited, filled, reclaimed, or afforested under Article 45 of the Act, or occupied
and improved on other justifiable grounds, is sold to the project implementer of any public
works under the Act on Acquisition of and Compensation for Land for Public Works
Projects and where the relevant project implementer has paid an amount equivalent to the
improvement expenses to the occupant or improver of the property. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011; Mar. 12, 2019>
(7) The scope of improvement expenses referred to in paragraphs (5) and (6) shall be
prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
(8) In cases of concession referred to in Articles 55 (1) 1 or 4 of the Act, the registered
price of property shall be the price of the property, notwithstanding paragraph (1).
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec. 28, 2011>
(9) Where general property necessary for public works under the Act on Acquisition of and
Compensation  for  Land  for  Public  Works  Projects,  is  disposed  of  to  the  project

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            41                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
implementer of the public works, the amount of compensation calculated under the same
Act may be the disposal price of the general property, notwithstanding paragraph (1).
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(10) Where any of the following State-owned land is disposed of by a general competitive
bidding under the main clause of Article 43 (1) of the Act, the officially assessed individual
land  price  of  the  relevant  State-owned  land  may  be  used  as  the  estimated  price
notwithstanding Article 43 (1): :<Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2013; Dec. 12, 2023>
1. A State-owned land (excluding the State-owned land located in the Special Metropolitan
City and a Metropolitan City) not exceeding 100 square meters, which consists of
adjacent parcels of lands (referring to a parcel of bordering lands which are the general
property (excluding the lands co-owned by State and a person other than State);
hereinafter the same shall apply);
2. State-owned land consisting of a series of lands, the registered price of which does not
exceed 10 million won.
(11) Where a person who has applied for the disposal of general property withdraws such
application after conducting an appraisal without good cause, the head of a central
government agency, etc. may require the applicant (excluding where a local government is
the applicant) to bear the expenses incurred in the appraisal and measurement. <Newly
Inserted on Dec. 30, 2022>
 
Article 42-2 (Estimated Prices Concerning Disposal of Intellectual Property) (1)
Notwithstanding Article 42 (1), the estimated price of disposing of intellectual property
shall be the amount determined in accordance with either of the following methods:
<Amended on Jun. 30, 2016; Jan. 21, 2022>
1. The total estimated amount of loyalty or rent during the term of the relevant intellectual
property;
2. The amount appraised by an appraisal corporation, etc. (limited to where no estimated
amount can be determined in accordance with subparagraph 1).
(2) No amount appraised by an appraisal corporation, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) 2
shall be applicable after one year from the date of the appraisal. <Amended on Jun. 30,
2016; Jan. 21, 2022>
(3) Where it is impractical to determine the estimate price through the method under
paragraph (1), it shall be determined in accordance with the actual sales price of similar

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            42                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
intellectual property; and if there is no real sales price of similar intellectual property, the
estimate price may be determined by mutatis mutandis application of Article 11 (3) of the
Regulations on Disposal and Management of State Public Officials' In-Service Inventions
and  Remuneration  or  Article  17  of  the  Enforcement  Decree  of  Seed  Industry  Act.
<Amended  on  Oct.  19,  2021>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
Article 43 (Estimated Prices of Listed Securities) (1) In cases of disposal of stocks issued by a
listed corporation, their estimated prices shall not be less than those listed in any of the
following subparagraphs:
1. The prices calculated by taking a weighted arithmetical average of the final market
prices in the securities exchange for the last 30 days of transactions within one year
before the reference date of appraisal; and if the number of days recorded with results of
transactions is under thirty, the prices computed in consideration of the prices calculated
by taking a weighted arithmetical average of the final market prices in the securities
exchange for the days transacted and the prices calculated by the method under Article
44 (1): Provided, That if the stocks are disposed of by means of competitive bidding or
public sale under Article 9 (9) of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act, the prices thereof may be computed in consideration of the prices calculated by
taking a weighted arithmetical average of the final market prices in the securities
exchange for the last thirty days of transactions (if the number of days recorded with
results of transactions is less than thirty, the days transacted) within one year before the
reference date of appraisal and the prices calculated by the method under Article 44 (1);
2. In cases of subscription to a public tender offer under subparagraph 3 of Article 41, the
prices therein;
3. In cases of exercise of appraisal rights under subparagraph 4 of Article 41, the prices
calculated under Article 165-5 of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act;
4. The selling prices of securities under subparagraph 5 of Article 41, if those prices are
specified.
(2) In cases of listed securities, other than those provided for in paragraph (1), their
estimated prices shall not be less than the prices calculated in consideration of the market
prices, earning rates, etc. of those securities transacted in the securities exchange within

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            43                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
one year before the reference date of appraisal.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2), where listed securities are
sold in the securities exchange or in a market the price determination of which is deemed
fair and publicly notified as such by the Minister of Economy and Finance, the prices
formed in that securities exchange or market shall be applicable without estimated prices.
 
Article 44 (Estimated Prices of Unlisted Securities) (1) In cases of disposal of equity securities
issued by any unlisted corporation, their estimated prices shall not be less than the prices
calculated in consideration of the asset value, profit value, and relative value of the unlisted
corporation computed by the calculation methods prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance: Provided, That the Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance may provide that the profit value or relative value can be disregarded.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in cases of equity securities acquired by national tax
payment in kind, their estimated prices may be calculated in consideration of the receiving
value of the property for payment in kind or the current prices formed in a market, other
than the securities exchange: Provided, That in cases of equity securities that meet both of
the following requirements, their estimated prices may be calculated in accordance with
methods  prescribed  by  Ordinance  of  the  Ministry  of  Economy  and  Finance,  in
consideration  of  the  receiving  value  of  the  property  for  payment  in  kind  and  the
management expenses, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2022>
1. Where general competitive bidding was conducted on the estimated price calculated
pursuant to paragraph (1), but which results in unsuccessful bidding;
2. Where general competitive bidding was conducted on the estimated price calculated
again pursuant to paragraph (1) on the year following the year in which the date of
calculating  the  estimated  price  under  subparagraph  1  falls,  but  which  results  in
unsuccessful  bidding;
3. Where unlisted securities are disposed of via a private contract pursuant to Article 40 (3)
25;
4. Where the other party to a private contract is a corporation which has issued the
relevant equity securities.
(3)  With  respect  to  investment  made  with  equity  securities  issued  by  any  unlisted
corporation, their prices shall be determined by the Minister of Economy and Finance

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            44                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
based on the financial status and profitability of the corporation that has issued such
securities.
(4) The estimated prices of unlisted securities, other than those provided for in paragraph
(1), shall not be less than the prices calculated in consideration of the expected profit or
estimated earning rate calculated by the method prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance.
 
Article 45 (Disclosure of Estimated Prices) The estimated prices referred to in Articles 42, 42-
2, 43, and 44 shall be open to the public: Provided, That in cases of disposal of equity
securities, their estimated prices can be closed. <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013>
 
Article 46 (Appraisal Bodies of Securities) In calculating disposal prices of securities, the office
of general administration or the head of a central government agency, etc. may, if
necessary, entrust appraisal bodies as follows with the appraisal thereof and consider the
results thereof: <Amended on Oct. 1, 2009; Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 11, 2015; Jun. 30, 2016; Jan.
21, 2022>
1. Appraisal corporations, etc.;
2. Credit appraisal companies under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act;
3. Accounting corporations under the Certified Public Accountant Act.
 
Article 47 (Management of Securities) Securities may be managed by means of loan pursuant
to the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act.
 
Article 47-2 (Restriction on Disposal of Securities Paid in Kind) "Person prescribed by
Presidential Decree" in the main clause of Article 44-2 (1) of the Act means any of the
following persons:
1. A person who is in any of the following relationships with the person who paid in kind:
(a) The spouse;
(b) A lineal blood relative;
(c) Siblings;
(d) A lineal blood relative of the spouse;
(e) Siblings of the spouse;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            45                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(f) The spouse of a lineal blood relative;
2. A legal entity in whose case the sum of equity securities held by a person who paid in
kind and a person who is in any relationship under the items of subparagph 1 with the
person who paid in kind at the time of disposal of securities paid in kind exceeds equity
securities held by each stockholder other than a person who paid in kind and a person
who is in any relationship under subparagph 1 with the person who paid in kind.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 12, 2019]
 
Article 48 (Pre-Contract for Exploitation and Afforestation) (1) The period for pre-contracting
provided for in Article 45 (1) of the Act shall be prescribed within 10 years from the date
of the contract: Provided, That if a natural disaster or other unavoidable cause occurs, the
head of a central government agency may extend the period for the pre-contracting within
five years, in consultation with the office of general administration. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
(2) Any person who has made a pre-contract under Article 45 (1) of the Act shall launch
the relevant project within one year from the date of the contract.
 
Article 49 (Concession by Pre-Contract) (1) The equivalent value of the general property
conceded under Article 45 (4) of the Act shall not exceed the amount invested in the
relevant project.
(2) The equivalent value of the general property referred to in paragraph (1) shall be based
on the price at the time of completion of the relevant project, if the project is fully
completed, and based on the price at the time of rescission or termination of the pre-
contract, if a portion of the project is completed.
 
            SECTION 2 Loans
 
Article 50 (Loans) (1) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 46 (1) 2 of the Act
means any of the following cases: <Amended on Jun. 26, 2018>
1. Where a building constructed at least 20 years ago is required for repair for easy use;
2. Where a building of which the standard for safety rating of facilities under Article 12 of
the Enforcement Decree of the Special Act on the Safety Control and Management of
Establishment is class C or less under attached Table 8 of the same Decree requires

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            46                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
repair for safety control;
3. Where a building is destroyed by natural disasters or other accidents requires separate
repair.
(2) "Cases prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the main clause of Article 46 (2) of the Act
means any of the following cases: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26, 2018>
1. Where the State or a local governments needs loaned property to use for the purpose
referred to in any subparagraph of Article 6 (2) of the Act;
2. In cases falling under any subparagraph of Article 36 (1) of the Act;
3. Where a term or condition of the loan contract is violated.
(3) Where a person to whom the affairs on administration and disposal of general property
are delegated or entrusted pursuant to Article 42 (1) of the Act intends to exempt rent, he
or she shall obtain a prior approval from the office of general administration. <Newly
Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26, 2018>
[Title Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 51 (Provisions Applicable Mutatis Mutandis) The provisions of Articles 27, 28, 29 (1)
through (6), 30, 31, 32 (5) through (7), 33, 34 (2) and (3), and 35 shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the methods, etc. of making loan contracts as provided for in Article 46 of the
Act. In such cases, "administrative property" shall be construed as "general property";
"permission for use" as "loan contract"; "register of permits for use" as "loan contract
register"; and "usage fees" as "rent." <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013; Jun. 26,
2018; Dec. 12, 2023>
 
Article 51-2 (Calculation of Loan Deposit) The loan deposit pursuant to Article 47 (2) of the
Act shall be calculated in accordance with the following calculation formula:
(이미지 있음)
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 51-3 (Reduction of or Exemption from Rent) Where the head of a central government
agency intends to grant a reduction of, or exemption from, a rent pursuant to Article 47-2
of the Act, he or she may do so within the limit of an amount which would be calculated
as usage fees, pursuant to Article 29, for the relevant private property reciprocally
possessed under the same Article of the Act if such property is construed as administrative
property.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            47                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2017]
 
            SECTION 3 Sale
 
Article 52 (Sale) (1) A property deemed and designated by the office of general
administration or the head of a central government agency as necessary to be
administered by State pursuant to Article 48 (1) 4 of the Act shall be the property falling
under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. A property that needs to be developed pursuant to Article 57 of the Act;
2. A property that needs to be reserved to meet the administrative demand in the future;
3. A property, the disposal of which needs to be restricted since a de facto or in-court
dispute is on-going or foreseeable.
(2) "General property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 48 (2) of the Act means
the property falling under any of the following subparagraphs: <Amended on Dec. 30,
2013>
1. A land or a building, the usage of which is abolished after having been used as a public
property;
2. A property which consists of a series of lands exceeding 3,000 square meters.
(3) Where a person to whom business affairs concerning the administration and disposal of
general property is delegated or entrusted pursuant to Article 42 (1) of the Act and Article
38 (3) of this Decree intends to sell the relevant general property, he or she shall obtain a
prior approval from the office of general administration, as prescribed by the standards for
disposal of State property under Article 9 (4) 3 of the Act. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2023>
(4) Where the head of a central government agency, etc. intends to sell off the State-
owned land falling under any of the following subparagraphs, he or she shall first consult
with the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport to decide whether or not the State-
owned land is necessary for the use of long-term public rental housing (referring to the
rental housing with at least 10 years of obligatory rental period, and as a constructed
public rental housing pursuant to subparagraph 1-2 under Article 2 of the Special Act on
Public Housing): <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 16, 2014; Dec. 28, 2015>
1. Site for a military camp, a prison or a school, the use of which is abolished;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            48                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. A series of lands exceeding 10,000 square meters.
[This Article Wholly Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 53 (Sale by Specifying Uses) (1) Where general property is sold with the use thereof
specified in accordance with Article 49 of the Act, it shall be put to the specified use for at
least 10 years from the date of sale.
(2) Where it is deemed necessary in relation to the property sold for a specified use, the
office of general administration may request the purchaser to report or to submit materials
on the management status of such property, and may direct public officials under its
control to audit the status of management or take other necessary measures.
(3) Where general property is sold with the use thereof specified in accordance with Article
49 of the Act, a special agreement shall be registered providing that the relevant sales
contract shall be rescinded if any cause provided for in subparagraph 3 of Article 52 of the
Act occurs.
 
Article 54 (Period for Payment of Proceeds from Sale) (1) The proceeds from sale under
Article 50 of the Act shall be paid in full by a deadline, as prescribed by the head of a
central government agency, etc., which does not exceed 60 days from the date on which
the relevant contract is concluded: Provided, That this shall not apply in cases falling under
any provisions of Article 55 (1) through (4). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) "As permitted by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 50 (1) of the Act means
any of the following subparagraphs:
1. When an accident not attributable to a purchaser occurs due to any natural calamity or
other disaster referred to in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the Framework Act on the
Management of Disasters and Safety;
2. When the date of delivery of property and the period for payment of proceeds from
sale are prescribed separately at the time of concluding a contract for sale of the
property, for the purpose of meeting the need for the State to occupy and use that
property continuously for a certain period.
 
Article 55 (Installment Payments of Sales Proceeds) (1) Sales proceeds may be paid in
installments for up to three years pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Act, if the proceeds from
sale exceed five million won but not exceed 30 million won. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2022;
Dec. 12, 2023>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            49                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) In any of the following cases, proceeds from sale may be paid in installments over up
to five years pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Act: <Amended on Jun. 28, 2010; Dec. 28,
2011; Dec. 30, 2013; Feb. 9, 2018; Jun. 26, 2018; Mar. 12, 2019; Sep. 29, 2020; Dec. 12,
2023>
1. Where the proceeds from sale exceed 30 million won;
1-2. Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2021>
2. Where property to be used directly by a public organization provided for in Article 33
for non-profit public projects is sold to the public organization;
3. Where the land occupied and used as the site of a private building on or before
December 31, 2012, or the land occupied and used as the site of a building for which
authorization for completion is granted under the former Act on Special Measures for
Rearrangement of Specific Buildings (referring to the Act enacted by Act No. 3533, 6253,
7698, and 11930), is sold to the occupant or user of such land;
4. Where the land occupied and used as the site of a private building meeting the
standards  determined  by  the  Mayor/Do  Governor  for  the  implementation  of  a
redevelopment project pursuant to the Act on the Improvement of Urban Areas and
Residential Environments, in a rearrangement zone designated for the redevelopment
project under subparagraph 2 (b) of Article 2 of that Act, is sold by the occupiers and
users of such land as at the time of granting authorization of a plan for implementing
the redevelopment project, to the person who succeeds to the rights and duties under
Article 129 of that Act (including where such land constitutes the land on which the
rearrangement basis facilities defined in subparagraph 4 of Article 2 of that Act are to be
installed and so any other State land in the rearrangement zone is sold by the person
who occupies and uses the land to the person who succeeds to the rights and duties
under Article 129 of that Act);
5. Where the land located in a market rearrangement project implementation district
provided for in Article 31 of the Special Act on the Development of Traditional Markets
and Shopping Districts and occupied and used as the site of a private building, is sold to
the occupiers and users of such land;
6. Where the land necessary to develop, establish, or operate facilities for collective
location of venture businesses under Article 19 (1) of the Act on Special Measures for the
Promotion of Venture Businesses is sold to an establisher or operator of the facilities for

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            50                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
collective location of venture businesses;
7. Where the land necessary to develop a technopark under Article 10 (1) of the Act on
Special Cases concerning Support for Technoparks is sold to the relevant project
implementer;
8. Where the State continues to occupy and use the property subject to sale for a given
period;
9. Where land needed to establish factories in an industrial complex under subparagraph
14 of Article 2 of the Industrial Cluster Development and Factory Establishment Act is
sold to occupant enterprises;
10. Where property any of the following enterprises or cooperatives intends to directly use
to achieve objectives of business under the relevant statutes or regulations is sold to the
relevant enterprise or cooperatives:
(a) A social enterprise under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Social Enterprise
Promotion Act;
(b)  A  cooperative  under  subparagraph  1  of  Article  2  of  the  Framework  Act  on
Cooperatives  and  social  cooperative  under  subparagraph  3  of  that  Article;
(c) A self-support company under Article 18 of the National Basic Living Security Act;
(d) A community company under Article 2 (1) 9 of the Special Act on Promotion of and
Support for Urban Regeneration.
(3) In any of the following cases, proceeds from sale may be paid in installments over up
to 10 years pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Act: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec. 28, 2011;
Apr. 5, 2013; Dec. 30, 2013; Jun. 26, 2018; Mar. 12, 2019; Jul. 31, 2020; Jun. 28, 2022; Dec.
12, 2023>
1. Where a parcel of State-owned land, as the farmland provided for in the Farmland Act,
is sold to an actual tiller;
2. Where the land located in an urban development zone designated under Article 3 of the
Urban Development Act and necessary for an urban development project, is sold to the
urban development project implementer (limited to a corporation that relocates to an
area other than the Seoul Metropolitan Area prescribed in Article 11 (1) 7 of that Act);
3. Where property to be used by a local government for the following purposes is sold to
the relevant local government;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            51                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(a) Use directly for official or public purposes;
(b) Use as infrastructure under Article 18 (1) 3 of the Act;
(c)  Use  for  the  creation  of  an  industrial  complex  under  the  Industrial  Sites  and
Development  Act;
(d) Use by a local government to create recreational facilities under subparagraph 2 of
Article 3 of the Framework Act on the Promotion of Leisure of Citizens is sold to the
relevant local government;
3-2. Where State property to be developed is sold to a special purpose company for
development of State-owned land;
4. Where State-owned land, among physical training facilities under the Installation and
Utilization of Sports Facilities Act, occupied for outdoor sports facilities such as golf
course, ski resort, etc., is sold to the relevant occupant;
5. Deleted; <Dec. 12, 2023>
6. Where property to be directly used for a type of business managed by a micro
enterprise (excluding a type of business falling under the proviso of Article 5 (1) of the
Support for Small and Medium Enterprise Establishment Act) is sold to the relevant micro
enterprise;
(4) In any of the following cases, sales proceeds may be paid in installments over up to
twenty years pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Act: <Amended on Feb. 9, 2018>
1. Where the land occupied and used as the site of a private building pursuant to
paragraph (2) 4 in a rearrangement zone designated for the implementation of a
redevelopment project defined in subparagraph 2 (b) of Article 2 of the Act on the
Maintenance and Improvement of Urban Areas and Dwelling Conditions for Residents is
sold to the person who occupies and uses such land as at the time authorization to
implement the redevelopment project is granted (including where such land constitutes
the land on which the rearrangement basis facilities defined in subparagraph 4 of Article
2 of the same Act are planned to be installed and so any other State-owned land in the
rearrangement zone is sold to the person occupying and using such land);
2. Where approval of the President is granted after deliberation by the State Council, in
any of the following cases:
(a) Where the sale of general property is deemed necessary for a settlement project to
disperse population;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            52                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(b) Where it is deemed inevitable to sell general property due to any natural disaster or
other disaster referred to in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the Framework Act on the
Management of Disasters and Safety.
(5) "Interest as prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 50 (2) of the Act means the
interest calculated by applying the publicly notified interest rate to the remainder of the
sales proceeds referred to in paragraphs (1) through (4).
(6) Where proceeds from sale are paid in installments over up to five years pursuant to
paragraph (2) 8, interest calculated under paragraph (5) shall be collected from the time
the purchaser acquires, or begins to occupy or use, the sold property.
 
Article 56 (Transfer of Ownership) "If it is prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the former
part of Article 51 (2) of the Act means where the sales proceeds are paid in installments
pursuant to Article 55 (2) 2, and 4 through 7 and paragraph (3) 3, and (4) 1 of that Article.
<Amended on Jun. 26, 2018; Dec. 12, 2023>
 
            SECTION 4 Exchange
 
Article 57 (Exchange) (1) An exchange referred to in Article 54 (1) of the Act shall be made
between similar types of property, except in any of the following cases: <Amended on Apr.
1, 2011>
1. Where general property is exchanged for public property;
2. Where a dilapidated existing official residence is exchanged to acquire a new official
residence.
(2) The exchange between similar types of property under paragraph (1) means any of the
following cases: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013>
1. Where land is exchanged for another land;
2. Where a building is exchanged for other building;
3. Where a building (including a structure) exists on both, or either, land, if the principle
property (referring to the property, the value of which is at least 1/2 of the entire
property's value) mutually coincide;
4. Where a movable asset is exchanged for another movable asset.
(3) The head of a central government agency, etc. shall not exchange general property if
the general property falls under any of the following cases: Provided, That the same shall

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            53                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
not apply where any general property specified in subparagraph 3 or 4 falls under any
subparagraph of paragraph (4): <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec. 28, 2011; Mar. 2,
2017>
1. Where disposal of the general property is restricted by the National Land Planning and
Utilization Act or other Acts;
2. Where it is necessary to preserve and administer the general property that can be
utilized in the future for public facilities, such as a road, harbor, or airport;
3. Where it is intended to exchange the property to be acquired through exchange without
a detailed plan for use thereof;
4. Where the value of property is less than 3/4 of the value of the other property (referring
to 1/2 in the case of an exchange provided for in Article 54 (1) 2 of the Act): Provided,
That this shall not apply where the property to be exchanged is co-owned property;
5. Where the usefulness of State property remaining after exchange decreases substantially;
6. Where it is intended to have the counterparty to the exchange construct a new building
and to acquire such building by exchange;
7.  Where  the  general  property  is  otherwise  subject  to  restriction  on  exchange  in
accordance with the guidelines for disposition referred to in Article 9 (4) 3 of the Act.
(4) "Extenuating circumstances prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as where it is
impracticable for the owner of the relevant property to enter and exit by the private land
only" in Article 54 (1) 4 of the Act means any of the following circumstances: <Newly
Inserted on Mar. 2, 2017>
1. Where it is impracticable for the owner of the relevant private property to enter and exit
by the private land only;
2. Where the usefulness of the relevant private property significantly decreases due to
possession thereof by the State;
3. Where the possibility of utilizing the relevant land, which is general property occupied
and used by a building possessed by the owner of private property from before March 2,
2016, as administrative property in the future is significantly low.
(5) The head of a central government agency, etc. who intends to exchange general
property shall specify the purpose of exchange, the counterpart to the exchange, the value
of property to be exchanged, the method of calculating the exchange price, etc., as
prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on Apr. 1,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            54                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2011; Mar. 2, 2017>
(6) General property may be exchanged for public property based on the officially assessed
individual land price, by mutual agreement between the head of a central government
agency, etc. and the relevant local government or a price assessed by at least one
appraisal corporation, etc., notwithstanding Article 42 (1). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun.
30, 2016; Mar. 2, 2017; Jan. 21, 2022>
(7) Where the head of a central government agency, etc. intends to exchange a movable
asset  for  another  movable  asset,  he  or  she  shall  preconsult  the  office  of  general
administration.  <Newly  Inserted  on  Apr.  5,  2013;  Mar.  2,  2017>
(8) Where a person delegated or entrusted with affairs concerning the administration and
disposal of general property pursuant to Article 42 (1) of the Act intends to exchange the
general  property,  he  or  she  shall  obtain  prior  approval  from  the  office  of  general
administration.  <Newly  Inserted  on  Apr.  1,  2011;  Apr.  5,  2013;  Mar.  2,  2017>
 
            SECTION 5 Concession
 
Article 58 (Concession) (1) "General property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 55
(1) 1 of the Act means any of the following property: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 10,
2012; Jul. 14, 2014>
1. General property, previously used by the State for its affairs, continues to be used by a
local government, to which the relevant affairs are conceded, to conduct such affair;
2. General property being used by a local government for the site of its office. In such
cases it shall be limited to the general property, the site of which was previously
controlled  by  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  and  was  not  conceded  to  the  local
government during the years between 1961 and 1965 although qualified for the
concession, being continuously used for the site of the local government office;
3. General property under the jurisdiction of the office of general administration which is
included in the project site for establishing road facilities (referring to the urban planning
facilities  pursuant  to  the  urban/Gun  management  plan  determined  before  1992)
implemented by the head of a local government (excluding the Special Metropolitan City,
Metropolitan City, Gyeonggi-do and the local governments under their jurisdictions)
pursuant to Article 86 of the National Land Planning and Utilization Act;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            55                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4. General property under the jurisdiction of the office of general administration which is
included in roads provided for in Articles 14 through 18 of the Road Act (limited to such
roads included in such roads before December 31, 2004);
5. General property necessary to promote commemoration projects provided for in Article
5 of the Special Act on the May 18 Democratization Movement.
(2) "Public organization prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 55 (1) 2 of the Act
means any corporation provided for in Article 33.
(3) "Administrative property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 55 (1) 3 of the Act
means any of the following property: <Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013>
1. Administrative property to be included in the public business district accredited pursuant
to Article 20 of the Act on Acquisition of and Compensation for Land for Public Works
Projects;
2. Administrative property, the use of which shall inevitably be discontinued to relocate,
etc. military facilities or to perform other large-scaled state projects.
(4) Matters necessary for the base point, etc. for evaluating the property falling into disuse
under Article 55 (1) 3 of the Act shall be prescribed by the Minister of Economy and
Finance. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 2, 2017>
(5) "Property prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 55 (1) 4 of the Act means any of
the following property: <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013; Mar. 2, 2017>
1. A State-owned building (including appurtenant facilities) located on land owned by a
non-State entity. In such cases, the transferee, the counterparty, shall be limited to the
owner of land on which the State-owned building is located;
2. General property determined to be conceded with approval of the President after
deliberation of the State Council, in order to smoothly fulfill the State's administrative
purposes.
(6) When the head of a central government agency, etc. consults with the office of general
administration pursuant to the main body of Article 55 (3) of the Act, it shall specify the
objective and conditions of concession and the value of property to be conceded and
itemize expenses borne by the transferee. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013; Mar. 2,
2017>
(7) "The value prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 55 (3) of the Act
means 50 billion won. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 26, 2018>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            56                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(8) Where a person delegated or entrusted with affairs concerning the administration and
disposal of general property pursuant to Article 42 (1) of the Act intends to concede the
general  property,  he  or  she  shall  obtain  prior  approval  from  the  office  of  general
administration. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 28, 2011; Apr. 5, 2013; Mar. 2, 2017; Jun. 26,
2018>
 
Article 59 (Registration of Special Agreement at Time of Concession) In cases of concession
under Article 55 (1) 1 of the Act, a special agreement shall be registered providing that the
relevant concession contract shall be rescinded if any cause provided for in Article 55 (2) of
the Act occurs.
 
            SECTION 6 Development
 
Article 60 (Development) (1) The development activities under Articles 57 of the Act may be
conducted by means of parceling-out type, loan type, and mixed type (referring to a
combination of parceling-out type and loan type). <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26,
2018>
(2) "Statutes prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 57 (2) 2 of the Act means any of
the following: <Newly Inserted on Jun. 26, 2018; Jul. 28, 2020; Sep. 29, 2020>
1. The Special Act on the Construction and Development of Innovation Cities;
2. The Special Act on the Promotion of Urban Renewal;
3. The Special Act on Private Rental Housing;
4. The Regional Development Assistance Act;
5. The Harbor Act;
6. The Act on Redevelopment of Harbors and Development of Their Environs;
7. The Special Act on Promotion of and Support for Urban Regeneration;
8. The Agricultural and Fishing Villages Improvement Act;
9. The Tourism Promotion Act.
 
Article 61 (Trust Contract) (1) If the head of a central government agency, etc. seeks to make
a trust development under Article 58 of the Act, it shall conclude a trust contract, as
prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            57                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) The head of a central government agency, etc. shall make clear the terms of a trust
contract provided for in paragraph (1) prior to the conclusion of the trust contract, and
then consult with, or obtain approval from, the office of general administration pursuant to
Article 58 (2) or (3) of the Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) "Important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the latter part of Article 58 (2)
of the Act and "important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the latter part of
paragraph (3) of the same Article mean the matters falling under any of the following
subparagraphs:
1. Selection of trust operators;
2. Period for trust;
3. Trust fees;
4. Limits on the borrowing of funds;
5. Use of facilities;
6. Kinds of development.
 
Article 62 (Method of Devolving Profits from Trust Development to State) (1) A trust operator
who is trusted with general property shall finish calculations on the trust business during
the trust period, based on the last day of each year, and pay the profits therefrom to the
head of a central government agency, etc. by the last day of February of the following
year. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) Upon expiration of a trust period or cancellation of a trust contract, a trust operator
shall finish the last calculations on the relevant trust business and obtain approval therefor
from the head of a central government agency, etc., and then transfer the trust property to
the State by any of the following methods: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. In cases of land and its fixtures, the trust registration shall be cancelled and registration
for the transfer of the ownership shall be made in the name of the State: Provided, That
fixtures difficult to be registered shall be transferred as they are;
2. Other property resulting from the trust shall be paid in terms of money to the head of
the relevant central government agency, etc.
 
Article 63 (Business Plan for Entrusted Development) (1) Where a person entrusted with the
business of administration and disposal of general property pursuant to Article 42 (1) and
(3) of the Act (hereinafter referred to as "trustee") intends to obtain approval pursuant to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            58                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 59 (2) of the Act, he or she shall establish a business plan for entrusted
development including the entrustment period, entrustment fees, limits on the borrowing
of funds, use of facilities, plan for land use, etc. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26, 2018>
(2) When intending to hold a consultation under Article 59 (3) of the Act, the head of a
central government agency shall submit a business plan for entrusted development
referred to in paragraph (1) to the office of general administration. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
(3) "Important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the latter part of Article 59 (2)
of the Act and "important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the latter part of
paragraph (3) of the same Article mean the matters falling under any of the following
subparagraphs: <Amended on Jun. 26, 2018>
1. Period for entrustment;
2. Entrustment fees;
3. Limits on the borrowing of funds;
4. Use of facilities;
5. Kinds of development;
6. Plan for land use.
[Title Amended on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64 (Method of Devolving Profits from Entrustment Development to State) (1) The
ownership of the property developed by a trustee pursuant to Article 59 of the Act shall
revert to the State.
(2) A trustee shall finish calculations on the entrustment business during the entrustment
period, based on the last day of each year, and pay the profits therefrom to the office of
general administration or the head of a central government agency. <Amended on Apr. 1,
2011>
 
Article 64-2 (Private Business Entities) "Private business entities prescribed by Presidential
Decree" in the provisions, with the exception of the subparagraphs, of Article 59-2 (1) of
the Act means the corporation (including foreign corporations) other than the person
falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. State, a local government, or a public institution;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            59                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. A public corporation or a foundation established pursuant to a special Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64-3 (Asset Management Company) "Asset management company prescribed by
Presidential Decree" in the former part of Article 59-2 (2) of the Act means the corporation
falling under any items of Article 86-2 (5) 2 of the Enforcement Decree of the Corporate
Tax Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64-4 (Person Having Special Relationship) "Persons prescribed by Presidential Decree
as related" in the main clause of Article 59-2 (3) of the Act means any of the following
persons:
1. A corporation, over 30/100 of share ownership of which is owned by the person falling
under any of the subparagraphs of Article 59-2 (3) of the Act;
2. A corporation that the person falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 59-2 (3)
of the Act participates in management of the corporation as its largest shareholder.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64-5 (Master Plan on Development through Participation of Private Sector) "Cases
where intending to change important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, on the
master plan on development through participation of private sector such as criteria and
method of selecting negotiation partners" in Article 59-3 (4) of the Act means the cases
falling under any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where intending to change the use of facility with respect to the portion of property for
official use;
2. Where, in a development project, intending to change at least 10/100 of the project's
estimated investment amount or facility scale;
3. Where intending to change the matters on criteria and method of selecting negotiation
partners;
4. Other cases where intending to change the important matters deemed, by the office of
general administration, necessary to obtain deliberation of the Committee and the
subcommittees  in  order  to  smoothly  promote  the  development  project  through
participation  of  private  sector.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            60                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64-6 (Letter of Proposal for Business Plan on Development through Participation of
Private Sector) "Matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in Article 59-3 (6) of the Act
means any of the following matters:
1. Matters on a business plan;
2. Matters on examination of feasibility of a business plan;
3. Matters on share ownership, business structure, and detailed operations of the special
purpose company for development of State-owned land;
4. Matters on purchase price of the State-owned land to be developed;
5. Matters on details of the total business budget and on the financing plan;
6. Matters on criteria for distribution of revenue;
7. Matters on plans for sale in lots, selling off and renting;
8. Matters on roles and responsibilities among business participants;
9. Other matters deemed necessary by the office of general administration.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
Article 64-7 (Staffing and Operation of the Evaluation Group for Development through
Participation of Private Sector) (1) In order to perform the evaluation affair pursuant to
Article 59-3 (7) of the Act, the office of general administration shall organize the evaluation
group for development through participation of private sector staffed with any of the
following persons (hereinafter referred to as "evaluation group"): <Amended on Mar. 23,
2013>
1. A person designated by the head of the institution to which the person belongs from
among the public officials belonging to the Senior Executive Service of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, and the Public
Procurement Service;
2. A person commissioned by the Minister of Economy and Finance, from among the
persons falling under any of the following items:
(a) A person in the office of an assistant professor or higher position in the area of
development project and its relevant areas;
(b) A doctorial degree holder having professional knowledge on development project
who belongs to the government-contributed research institute established pursuant to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            61                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
the Act on the Establishment, Operation and Fostering of Government-Funded
Research Institutes;
(c) A certified architect, public accountant, or attorney at law, etc. having at least five
years of practice who has professional knowledge and experience on development
project.
(2) Members of the evaluation group shall be at least 10 and not more than 30 persons.
(3) Matters necessary for staffing and operation of the evaluation group, other than those
provided for under paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be determined by the office of general
administration after deliberation of the Committee.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
 
            SECTION 7 Contributions In Kind
 
Article 65 (Base Date of Appraisal of Contributions in Kind) In calculating the amount of
contribution pursuant to Article 62 of the Act, the base date of appraisal of property shall
be determined by the Minister of Economy and Finance.
 
Article 66 (Acquisition of Equity Securities following Contributions in Kind) "Any case
prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso of Article 64 of the Act means any of the
following cases:
1. Where the Government makes contributions in kind to any enterprise, the capital of
which is composed entirely of investments from the Government;
2.  Where  the  Government  makes  contributions  in  kind  on  condition  that  the  said
contributions exchange for the equity securities acquired in return for the contributions
so as to ensure the reinstatement of those contributions;
3. Where contributions in kind are made to a financial institution ordered by the Financial
Services Commission to reduce its capital pursuant to Article 12 of the Act on the
Structural Improvement of the Financial Industry, upon request by the Financial Services
Commission.
 
Article 67 (Reinstatement of Property Contributed in Kind) (1) Where contributions in kind are
reinstated pursuant to subparagraph 2 of Article 66, the contributions in kind and the
equity securities acquired in return for such contributions shall be exchanged on the same

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            62                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
conditions as those at the time of making those contributions, irrespective of the market
prices thereof at the time of such reinstatement.
(2) The timing of reinstatement under paragraph (1) and other necessary matters shall be
determined  on  the  basis  of  an  agreement  made  between  the  office  of  general
administration  and  each  corporation.
 
            SECTION 8 Dividend Paid to Government
 
Article 67-2 (Scope of Companies Paying Dividends to Government) "Companies prescribed
by Presidential Decree" in Article 65-2 of the Act means the companies defined in annexed
Table 2.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 14, 2011]
 
Article 67-3 (Criteria for Determination of Dividend) "Criteria for determining dividends
prescribed by Presidential Decree" in subparagraph 6 of Article 65-3 of the Act means each
of the following matters:
1. Whether or not the Government provides financial support, together with the scale
thereof, for the companies paying dividends to the Government in accordance with
Article 65-2 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as "companies paying dividends to the
Government");
2. Degree of publicness of the companies paying dividends to the Government;
3. Other matters the office of general administration deems necessary to pay the dividend
to the Government, pursuant to Article 65-2 of the Act, appropriate.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 14, 2011]
 
Article 67-4 (Submission of Data of Estimated Government's Dividend Revenue) Pursuant to
Article 65-4 (1) of the Act, the companies paying dividends to the Government shall submit
each year the data under the following subparagraphs 1 through 3 and 5 until each May
31, and the data under the following subparagraph 4 until each July 31 to the office of
general administration or to the head of a central government agency:
1. Major business plans and estimated net profit for the term;
2. A plan for disposal of profits;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            63                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
3. Status of paid in capital;
4. Performance of net profit for the first half of the relevant fiscal year, and annual
estimated net profit for the term;
5.  Other  data  the  office  of  general  administration  deems  necessary  to  estimate
Government's  dividend  revenue.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 14, 2011]
 
Article 67-5 (Submission of the Data concerning Determination of Dividend for Government)
Pursuant to Article 65-5 (1) of the Act, the companies paying dividends to the Government
shall submit until January 31 each year the data falling under each of the following
subparagraphs to the office of general administration and to the head of a central
government agency, respectively:
1. A plan for internal reservation and dividend of earned surplus;
2. Statements of financial position and profit and loss that are completed before financial
auditing;
3. Status of paid in capital;
4.  Other  data  the  office  of  general  administration  deems  necessary  to  determine
Government's  dividend  revenue.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 14, 2011]
 
            CHAPTER IV-2 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS TO ADMINISTRATION OR DISPOSAL OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
 
Article 67-6 (Permission for Use, etc. of Intellectual Property) (1) Where a person permitted to
use or borrow (hereinafter referred to as "permission for use, etc.") intellectual property
pursuant to Article 65-7 (1) of the Act allows any third person to use or benefit from the
intellectual property, the period of use or benefit concerned shall not exceed the remaining
period of the original permission for use, etc.
(2) Where a person who has obtained the permission for use, etc. of intellectual property
pursuant to Article 65-7 (1) of the Act intends to allow any third person to make use of or
profit from the intellectual property, he or she shall submit a written application for
approval containing the following matters to the head of the relevant central government
agency, etc.:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            64                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
1. Indication of the intellectual property concerned;
2. Purpose of use, method of benefit, and period of making use of and benefit from the
intellectual property concerned;
3. Details of consideration for use to be given to the person who has obtained the
permission for use, etc. from the third person to make use of or profit from the same;
4. Other necessary matters.
(3) Where the head of a central government agency, etc. receives the application pursuant
to paragraph (2), if the consideration for use under paragraph (2) 3 exceeds the royalties
or  rent  of  the  intellectual  property  concerned,  he  or  she  need  not  approve  the
aforementioned  application.
(4) Where a person permitted to use, etc. intends to transform, alter, or remake the
copyright work under Article 65-7 (2) of the Act, he or she shall submit a written
application for approval containing the following matters to the head of the relevant
central government agency, etc.:
1. Indication of the intellectual property concerned;
2. Purposes and details of transformation, alteration, or remake of the copyright work;
3. Other necessary matters.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
Article 67-7 (Method of Permission for Use, etc. of Intellectual Property) Where the head of
the relevant central government agency, etc. calls for general competitive bid for
intellectual property pursuant to the latter part of Article 65-8 (4) of the Act, with respect
to any property for which no successful bidder can be found until two rounds of general
competitive bidding, the permission to use, etc. the said property may be granted by
private contract pursuant to Article 65-8 (1) of the Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
Article 67-8 (Standard for Calculating Royalties on Intellectual Property) (1) The standard for
calculating the royalties or rent (hereinafter referred to as "royalties, etc.") of intellectual
property pursuant to Article 65-9 (1) of the Act shall be subject to each of the following
classifications:
1. Intellectual properties under Article 5 (1) 6 (a) of the Act: Attached Table 2-2;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            65                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
2. Intellectual property under Article 5 (1) 6 (b) of the Act: The standard determined by the
office of general administration, following consultation with the Minister of Culture,
Sports and Tourism, taking into account sales volume of the product industrializing
intellectual property, the frequency of using an intellectual property, or other factors;
3. Intellectual properties under Article 5 (1) 6 (c) of the Act: Attached Table 2-3;
4. Intellectual properties under Article 5 (1) 6 (d) of the Act: The standard applicable to the
intellectual property most similar to the intellectual property concerned, among the
standards under subparagraphs 1 through 3.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), where the permission for use, etc. of a property is
issued by general competitive bidding pursuant to the latter part of Article 65-8 (4) of the
Act, the royalties, etc. shall be set at the highest bid price. In such cases, Article 29 (6) shall
not apply. <Amended on Jun. 26, 2019>
(3) Where the permission for use, etc. is renewed pursuant to Article 65-11 (2) of the Act,
the royalties, etc. incurred during the term of the renewed permission for use, etc. shall be
subject to paragraphs (1) and (2), notwithstanding Article 34 (2): Provided, That the
royalties, etc. in the case of newing the permission for use, etc. pursuant to the proviso of
Article 65-11 (2) of the Act shall be calculated in accordance with the following formula:
(이미지 있음)
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
Article 67-9 (Exemption from or Reduction of Royalties, etc. of Intellectual Property) (1)
Where the head of a central government agency, etc. intends to reduce and exempt
royalties, etc. pursuant to Article 65-10 of the Act, he or she shall specify, in the written
permission for use or loan agreement, the method of use and the scope of conditions
thereof.
(2) In cases under subparagraph 2 of Article 65-10 of the Act, the ratio of exemption from
or reduction of the royalties, etc. shall be as follows:
1. Where the permission for use, etc. is made for a local government: Exemption;
2. Other cases: 50/100 of the loyalties, etc.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
Article 67-10 (Term of Permission to Use, etc. of Intellectual Property) (1) Pursuant to Article
65-11 (1) of the Act, the term of the renewed permission to use, etc. intellectual property

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            66                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(excluding any rights to trademarks) shall be up to three years.
(2)  Notwithstanding  paragraph  (1),  in  any  of  the  following  cases,  the  term  of  the
permission to use, etc. may be extended for the term as classified as follows. In such cases,
no aggregate term of initial and extended permission to use, etc. shall exceed five years:
1. Where it takes at least one year to prepare implementation of the intellectual property
concerned: Period of such preparation;
2. Where the term of intellectual property concerned expires within four years from the
date of executing the contract: The period remaining until the expiry of such term.
(3) The term of the permission to use, etc. a trademark right shall be up to five years.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 5, 2013]
 
            CHAPTER V ADMINISTRATIVE REGISTER AND REPORTING
 
Article 68 (Administrative Register and Inspection) (1) The register of State property provided
for in Article 66 (1) of the Act shall be prepared using a form prescribed by the office of
general administration according to the classifications and kinds of State property.
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) Where the business of administration is delegated under Article 28 of the Act or the
business of administration and disposal of general property is delegated or entrusted
under Article 42 (1) and (2) of the Act, the person to whom the business is delegated or
entrusted shall prepare and keep the register referred to in paragraph (1), and the head of
a central government agency shall prepare and keep the general register with regard
thereto. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(3) The office of general administration shall keep the general register by classifying State
property as the property owned by the offices of administration, the property owned by
those to whom the business of administration and disposal of general property is
delegated or entrusted under Article 42 (1) of the Act, and the property owned by the
office of general administration. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(4) The head of a central government agency, etc. shall select the property subject to an
inspection of actual conditions by taking account of the peculiarity, status of utilization,
etc. of State property, and perform an inspection of the relevant State property at least
once a year. In such cases, the matters to be inspected shall be as follows: <Amended on

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            67                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Apr. 1, 2011>
1. Status of property and land registration;
2. Surrounding environment;
3. Present state of use;
4. Other necessary matters regarding the preservation, administration, etc. of property.
 
Article 69 (Adjustment of Registry) (1) Where any variation or change in State property
occurs due to the acquisition, administrative conversion, or disposal of the State property
or on other grounds, the head of a central government agency, etc. shall without delay
record the details thereof on the registry and adjust the annexed drawings. <Amended on
Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) Where the Special Self-Governing City Mayor, the Special Self-Governing Province
Governor, or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu has adjusted the registry on land, forests and fields
owned by the State, he or she shall without delay give notice of such adjustments to the
head of a central government agency, etc. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 19, 2012>
 
Article 70 (Reporting on Administration and Management of State Property) The matters to
be included in a report on the administration and management of State property pursuant
to Article 69 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. The performance of enforcement and the result of evaluation of the comprehensive plan
for State property;
2. Status of the increase and decrease, and holding of State property as at the end of the
relevant year;
2-2. Performance of management pursuant to Article 9 of the Act on Regulation of Special
Cases of State Property;
3. Other matters recognized by the head of a central government agency as important in
relation to the duties of administration and disposal of State property.
 
            CHAPTER Ⅵ SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
 
Article 71 (Indemnities) (1) An indemnity provided for in Article 72 of the Act shall be
equivalent to 120/100 of the annual usage fees or rent (in cases of an intellectual property,
referring to the royalties, etc. calculated pursuant to Article 67-8 (1)) calculated under

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            68                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 29 (1) through (4). In such cases, if the period for occupation exceeds one fiscal
year, the indemnity shall be the aggregate of the indemnities calculated for the respective
fiscal years. <Amended on Apr. 5, 2013; Dec. 30, 2022>
(2) The head of a central government agency, etc. may postpone the collection of an
indemnity for a period not exceeding one year from the deadline for its initial payment, if
the relevant unauthorized occupant falls under any of the following subparagraphs:
<Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
1. Where any serious damage is caused to the relevant property by any disaster or loss;
2. Where the unauthorized occupant, or any of his or her cohabiting family members,
requires long-term treatment due to any illness or serious injury;
3. Where the unauthorized occupant is a recipient of assistance under subparagraph 2 of
Article 2 of the National Basic Living Security Act;
4. Other cases deemed equivalent to those falling under subparagraphs 1 and 2.
(3) If an indemnity referred to in paragraph (1) exceeds one 500,000 won, the head of a
central government agency, etc. may allow the person liable to pay such to pay the
indemnity in installments over a period not exceeding three years on condition that
interest be added, calculated by applying the publicly notified interest rate to the
remainder of the indemnity pursuant to Article 72 (2) of the Act. In such cases, the dates
for payment, and amounts, of the indemnity to be paid in installments shall be notified
together. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Dec. 30, 2022>
(4) A person who intends to defer the payment of an indemnity or make it in installments
pursuant to Article 72 (2) of the Act shall submit an application prescribed by Ordinance of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the head of a central government agency, etc. by
the date when one year has elapsed since the day immediately following the deadline
under Article 36 (3) applicable mutatis mutandis under paragraph (5). <Newly Inserted on
Mar. 12, 2019>
(5) Article 36 (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the collection of indemnities.
<Amended on Mar. 12, 2019>
 
Article 72 (Collection of Overdue Charges) (1) If, with regard to State property, the usage
fees, additional dues imposed for the negligence of administration, rent, proceeds from
sale, exchange funds, and indemnities (excluding any interest accrued thereon where the
payment of such indemnities is made in installments) are not paid by their respective due

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            69                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
dates as provided for in Article 73 of the Act, the head of a central government agency,
etc. shall notify the person liable for the payment thereof to pay them with overdue
charges calculated by applying a percentage described in each of the following
subparagraphs for a fixed period not exceeding 15 days. In such cases, if the amounts
referred to in the forepart and the overdue charges are not paid within the notified period,
notice of payment shall be made again within the limits of two occasions, but the deadline
of payment under the final notice shall be within three months from the date of payment
notice as referred to in the forepart, and thereafter notice of demand shall be made at
least once per year: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jun. 26, 2018>
1. Where the period of arrears is less than one month: Seven percent per annum;
2. Where the period of arrears is at least one month but less than three months: Eight
percent per annum;
3. Where the period of arrears is at least three months but less than six months: Nine
percent per annum;
4. Where the period of arrears is at least six months: Ten percent per annum.
(2) If the notified amount is paid by the payment deadline notified under the forepart of
paragraph (1), the overdue charges from the date of notice to the date of payment shall
not be collected.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), where the office of general administration determines
and publicly notifies the subject matters and period to ease managerial burden caused by
a natural disaster, disaster defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 3 of the Framework Act on
the Management of Disasters and Safety, economic depression, mass unemployment, etc.,
the usage fees and overdue charges for rent for the relevant period may be reduced, as
prescribed by Public Notice. <Newly Inserted on Jul. 31, 2020>
 
Article 72-2 (Consultation of Urban/Gun Management Plan) (1) Where the head of a central
government agency or the head of a local government intends to make a consultation
pursuant to Article 73-2 (1) of the Act, he or she shall consult with any of the following
persons: <Amended on Jun. 26, 2018>
1. In cases of general property controlled by the office of general administration: The office
of general administration;
2. In cases of State property other than general property provided for in subparagraph 1:
The head of a central government agency who controls the relevant State property.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            70                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
(2) Where the head of a central government agency, etc. intends to consult with the office
of  general  administration  under  Article  73-2  (2)  of  the  Act,  he  or  she  shall  attach
documents prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance with opinions
of prior review. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 26, 2018>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jun. 26, 2018]
 
Article 73 (Additional Dues for Overpayments or Erroneous Payment) "Interest prescribed by
Presidential Decree" in Article 75 of the Act means the interest calculated by applying the
publicly notified interest rate.
 
Article 74 (Disclosure of Information) Pursuant to Article 76 (1) of the Act, the office of
general administration shall disclose the following information so as to facilitate the
understanding of citizens thereon:
1. Acquisition, disposal, and holdings of State property;
2. Status of State property, the use of which can be permitted or which can be loaned or
sold;
3. Status of important policies, etc. relating to State property.
 
Article 75 (Reporting on Concealed Property) (1) Any concealed State property subject to the
payment of monetary rewards or concession pursuant to Article 77 of the Act shall be the
State property registered or recorded in the name of a non-State entity, in the certified
transcript of the registry or in the public cadastre, and the registration or record of which
is not perceived by the State.
(2) Any ownerless real estate subject to the payment of monetary rewards or concession
pursuant to Article 77 of the Act shall be the property un-registered or un-recorded in the
certified transcript of the registry or in the public cadastre, or the owner of which is
unknown, and the registration or record of which is not perceived by the State: Provided,
That property for public use shall be excluded.
(3) A report on any concealed property, etc. pursuant to Article 77 of the Act shall be
submitted to the Administrator of the Public Procurement Service, as prescribed by
Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. <Amended on Jun. 19, 2012>
(4) The Administrator of the Public Procurement Service shall keep registers on disposal of
concealed property, etc. in the form prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            71                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
and Finance, and record necessary matters therein. <Amended on Jun. 19, 2012>
 
Article 76 (Payment of Monetary Rewards) (1) If any concealed property, etc. is found and
reported by a person, other than a local government, and is determined to be reverted to
the State, the person who reported the concealed property, etc. shall be paid monetary
rewards in an amount not exceeding 10/100 of the value of such property, etc. pursuant to
Article 77 of the Act.
(2) Monetary rewards to be paid under paragraph (1) shall not exceed 30 million won, and
the rate and upper limit of the monetary rewards for each kind of concealed property, etc.
shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
(3) Where a local government is rewarded under Article 77 (2) of the Act, the relevant
property may be conceded as classified below: <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Jan. 5, 2021>
1. Where the concealed property is found and reported: To concede a value of property
equivalent  to  30/100  of  the  value  of  the  property  which  the  office  of  general
administration  designates  and  the  local  government  reports;
2. Where any of the following ownerless real estate is found and reported: To concede a
piece of property equivalent to 15/100 of the value of the property which the office of
general administration designates and the local government reports:
(a) The property that has never been registered in a certified copy of the registry or in
cadastral records, other than the property for public use (including disused roads and
waterways);
(b) The property that has not undergone ownership-acquisition procedures because there
is no interested persons in the land created by reclamation of public waters, etc.
(4) If at least two persons have reported any concealed property, etc., monetary rewards
shall be paid to the person who has first reported it: Provided, That if the area reported is
different, such monetary rewards may be paid to posterior reporters for the difference of
the area only.
(5) In cases falling under paragraphs (1) and (3), the subparagraphs of Article 29 (2) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the determination of the value of the relevant property.
<Amended on Jun. 19, 2012>
 
Article 77 (Special Cases concerning Voluntary Restitution of Concealed Property) (1) Any
concealed State property subject to sale as provided for in Article 78 of the Act shall be

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            72                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
the State property which is registered or recorded in the name of any person, other than
the State, in the certified transcript of the register or in the public cadastre.
(2) If any concealed State property is sold to a person who has returned such property to
the State under Article 78 of the Act, the periods of installment payments of the proceeds
from sale and the proceeds from sale for one payment in full, depending upon each cause
for such return, shall be as shown in attached Table 3. <Amended on Oct. 14, 2011>
(3) In cases of voluntary return as referred to in paragraph (2), the day of return shall be
the day of receiving an application for registration for transfer of the ownership of the
concealed property to be returned.
 
Article 78 (Liability for Compensation) If any offense falling under any of Article 79 (1) of the
Act and Article 4 (3) and (4) of the Act on Liability of Accounting Personnel is committed,
the head of a central government agency shall notify the details thereof without delay to
the office of general administration and the Board of Audit and Inspection. <Amended on
Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 79 (Scope of Corporations Subject to Application of Special Cases concerning
Liquidation) (1) The corporations to which the application of the Commercial Act is
restricted under Article 80 of the Act shall be the enterprises, the equity securities of which
are reverted to the State by any Act or as a result of contribution acceptance, etc. and
which are designated by the office of general administration (hereinafter referred to as
"liquidated corporations").
(2) The office of general administration shall, upon designation of a liquidated corporation,
publicly announce such fact without delay.
 
Article 80 (Special Cases concerning Liquidation) (1) The scope to which, for liquidated
corporations, the application of the Commercial Act is restricted under Article 80 of the Act
shall be as follows:
1. Appointment of a liquidator and auditor;
2. Approval of the inventory of property and balance sheet provided for in Article 533 of
the Commercial Act;
3. Transfer and acquisition of business, reduction of capital amount, and amendments of
articles of incorporation;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            73                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4.  Approval  of  expenses  of  liquidation,  settlement  of  accounts,  and  completion  of
liquidation;
5. Determination of distribution and method of distribution of remaining property;
6. Convocation of a general meeting of stockholders or members;
7. Appointment of a document keeper and determination of the method of keeping
documents.
(2) The office of general administration shall determine the matters referred to in each
subparagraph of paragraph (1) after hearing opinions of the relevant agencies and those
who have profound learning and experience in the business of corporate liquidation.
(3) With respect to any provisions inconsistent with this Decree among those statutes
(excluding Acts) concerning liquidation of liquidated corporations, this Decree shall prevail.
 
Article 81 (Liquidation Procedures for Corporations Located in Areas North of Military
Demarcation Line) (1) Where a corporation is liquidated pursuant to Article 81 (1) of the
Act, the following matters shall be publicly announced in the Official Gazette pursuant to
Article 81 (3) and through a daily newspaper published nationwide, website, broadcasting,
etc: <Amended on Nov. 24, 2020>
1. Name of the relevant corporation and details of its property;
2. Purport that stockholders, creditors, or other rightful persons shall be excluded from
proceeds of the liquidation, if they fail to report within six months from the public
announcement.
(2) Where the State entrusts registration for ownership transfer on the real estate of a
corporation, according to the latter part of Article 81 (2) of the Act or as a result of the
distribution of the remaining property resulting from the completion of liquidation
procedure, a written acceptance by the party who is obliged to register as provided for in
Article 36 (1) of the Registration of Real Estate Act is not required to be accompanied
under Article 81 (4) of the Act, and a written form determined by the office of general
administration after hearing opinions of the relevant agencies and those who have
profound learning and experience in the business of corporate liquidation shall replace a
written instrument proving the ground for registration provided for in Article 40 (1) 2 of
the Registration of Real Estate Act.
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            74                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
Article 82 (Buying Insurance Policy) (1) The head of a central government agency shall take
out non-life insurance on buildings, in each of which the total floor area is at least 1,000
square meters, ships, airplanes and the appurtenances thereof, which are State property,
and other important machinery and appliances among those provided for in Article 5 (1) 3
of the Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
(2) If the use of the buildings, ships, airplanes, machinery, or appliances provided for in
paragraph (1) is permitted or such property is loaned, whether it is paid for, the head of a
central government agency may have the person so permitted or loaned take out non life
insurance thereon, or pay the insurance premium borne by the said head of a central
government agency, in advance. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011>
 
Article 83 (Payment of Budgetary Incentives to Public Officials in Charge of Administration of
State Property) (1) If public officials, who take charge of all or some affairs of State
property administration delegated under Articles 28 and 42 of the Act, contribute to
increasing revenues or to saving budget by improving institution or by other methods, the
office of general administration and the head of a central government agency may pay
budgetary incentives to such public officials pursuant to Article 49 of the National Finance
Act. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2011; Sep. 29, 2020>
(2) The office of general administration may pay monetary awards to public officials or
institutions that have faithfully administered State property or that have achieved excellent
results. <Newly Inserted on Sep. 29, 2020>
[Title Amended on Sep. 29, 2020]
 
Article 84 (Processing of Personally Identifiable Information) The office of general
administration or the head of a central government agency, etc. may process the data
containing resident registration numbers under subparagraph 1 of Article 19 of the
Enforcement Decree of the Personal Information Protection Act, if it is inevitable to
perform the following affairs:
1. Affairs concerning filing objections following public announcements of ownerless real
estate under Article 12 of the Act;
2. Affairs concerning contribution acceptance provided for in Article 13 of the Act;
3. Affairs concerning the construction of permanent facilities under Article 18 of the Act;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            75                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE STATE PROPERTY ACT」
4. Affairs concerning permission for use or loan under Article 30 of the Act (including cases
applied mutatis mutandis under Article 47 (1) of the Act);
5. Affairs concerning the sale, exchange or concession under Article 48, 54 or 55 of the Act;
6. Affairs concerning the inspection of actual status and access to land, etc. related thereto
under Articles 66 and 67 of the Act;
7. Collection of indemnities, overdue charges, etc. under Articles 72 and 73 of the Act;
8. Removal of illegal facilities under Article 74 of the Act;
9. Return of additional dues for overpayments or erroneous payment under Article 75 of
the Act;
10. Affairs concerning reporting on any concealed State property or ownerless real estate
under Article 77 of the Act.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 28, 2011]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
