 
법령, 판례 등 모든 법령정보를 한 번에 검색 OK !
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY
[Enforcement Date 11. Dec, 2022.] [Presidential Decree No.33012, 06. Dec, 2022.,
Partial Amendment]
과학기술정보통신부 (성과평가정책과)044-202-6925
법제처 국가법령정보센터
www.law.go.kr
2025.04.05

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            1                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
[Enforcement Date 11. Dec, 2022.] [Presidential Decree No.33012, 06. Dec, 2022., Partial Amendment]
과학기술정보통신부 (성과평가정책과) 044-202-6925
 
            CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Decree is to prescribe matters mandated by the
Framework Act on Intellectual Property and matters necessary for the enforcement thereof.
 
Article 2 (Participation of Private Individuals or Groups in Policies) When the Government and
local governments formulate policies under Article 4 (1) and (2) of the Framework Act on
Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to as the "Act"), they shall thoroughly hear
opinions of related research institutions, corporations, organizations and non-governmental
experts and reflect them therein.
 
            CHAPTER II FORMULATION OF POLICIES ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND SYSTEM
FOR PROMOTION SYSTEM
 
Article 3 (Scope of Relevant Central Administrative Agencies) For the purposes of Article 7 (3)
1 of the Act, the relevant central administrative agencies shall be as follows: <Amended on
Dec. 12, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
1. The Ministry of Economy and Finance;
2. The Ministry of Education;
3. The Ministry of Science and ICT;
4. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
5. The Ministry of Unification;
6. The Ministry of Justice;
7. The Ministry of the Interior and Safety;
8. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism;
9. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs;
10. The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy;
11. The Ministry of Health and Welfare;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            2                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
12. The Ministry of Environment;
13. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport;
14. The Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries;
14-2. The Ministry of SMEs and Startups;
15. The National Intelligence Service;
16. The Office for Government Policy Coordination;
17. The Korea Communications Commission;
18. The Fair Trade Commission;
19. The Financial Services Commission;
20. The Korea Customs Service;
21. The Cultural Heritage Administration;
22. Deleted; <Jul. 26, 2017>
23. The Korean Intellectual Property Office;
24. The Korea Meteorological Administration.
 
Article 4 (Composition of Council) The members of the Council prescribed in Article 7 (3) 1 of
the Act shall be the heads of agencies referred to in subparagraphs 1 through 4, 8 through
11, 14-2, 15, 16, 18 and 23 of Article 3. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Apr.
10, 2018>
 
Article 5 (Operation of Council) (1) When the Chairperson of the Presidential Council on
Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to as the "Chairperson") prescribed in Article 6 (1)
of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Council") convenes a meeting, he or she shall
inform each member of the Council of the time and place of the meeting, and agenda
items to be referred to the meeting by not later than seven days prior to holding the
meeting: Provided, That this shall not apply to cases where urgent circumstances or other
unavoidable circumstances arise.
(2) The Council shall convene a meeting with the attendance of a majority of all incumbent
members, and shall pass resolutions with the concurrence of a majority of those present.
(3) If necessary for deliberating on agenda items, the Council may have the head of a
central administrative agency who is not a member of the Council attend its meeting and
express his or her opinion in connection with agenda items under his or her jurisdiction, or
a related expert attend its meeting to hear his or her opinion.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            3                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
(4) The Council shall take and keep meeting minutes.
(5) The Council may establish a working-level steering committee to efficiently conduct its
affairs,  such  as  the  prior-review  of  agenda  items  to  be  referred  to  discussion  and
coordination  of  different  views  among  the  government  ministries.
(6) The working-level steering committee referred to in paragraph (5) shall be comprised of
public officials belonging to the Senior Executive Service of agencies prescribed in Article 4
to which members of the Council belong.
 
Article 6 (Composition and Operation of Specialized Committees) (1) The Council shall
establish the following specialized committees pursuant to Article 7 (6) of the Act:
<Amended on Dec. 12, 2012>
1. A specialized committee for the creation of intellectual property;
2. A specialized committee for the protection of intellectual property;
3. A specialized committee for the utilization of intellectual property;
4. A specialized committee for infrastructure of intellectual property;
5. A specialized committee for new intellectual property.
(2) Each specialized committee (hereinafter referred to as "Specialized Committee") referred
to in each subparagraph of paragraph (1) shall be comprised of not more than 15
members, including one chairperson, and the Chairperson shall appoint the chairperson
and members of each Specialized Committee, from among those who have expertise and
extensive experience in the relevant field.
(3) Each Specialized Committee may, in advance, examine and coordinate agenda items to
be referred to discussion by the Council, discuss outstanding issues, etc. in the relevant
field and report the results thereof to the Council.
(4) Each Specialized Committee shall convene a meeting with the attendance of a majority
of all incumbent members, and shall pass resolutions with the concurrence of a majority of
those present.
(5) The term of office of the chairperson of each Specialized Committee shall be one year,
and the term of office of members thereof shall be two years.
(6) If necessary for efficiently reviewing agenda items, each Specialized Committee may
establish and operate subcommittees.
(7) If necessary for specialized examination on urgent issues, the Chairperson may establish
and operate an ad hoc Specialized Committee in addition to the Specialized Committees

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            4                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
through a resolution by the Council.
 
Article 7 (Allowances and Travel Expenses) The Council may grant an allowance and
reimburse travel expenses to members who have attended a meeting of the Council, the
working-level steering committee, a Specialized Committee, and an ad hoc Specialized
Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "Council, etc."), relevant persons and experts who
have expressed their opinions within budgetary limits: Provided, That this shall not apply
where a public official member attends a meeting of the Council in direct connection with
his or her duties.
 
Article 8 (Detailed Rules for Operation) Except as prescribed by this Decree, detailed matters
necessary for the composition and operation of the Council, etc., and the operation of the
Intellectual Property Strategy and Planning Office prescribed in Article 14 shall be
determined by the Chairperson through a resolution by the Council.
 
Article 9 (Procedures for Formulation of Master Plans for National Intellectual Property) (1)
The Minister of Science and ICT shall formulate a master plan for national intellectual
property pursuant to Article 8 (1) of the Act by not later than December 31 of the year
preceding the year in which the master plan for national intellectual property (hereinafter
referred to as "master plan") begins. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26,
2017>
(2) In order to formulate a master plan, the Minister of Science and ICT shall prepare
guidelines for formulation of the master plan by not later than April 30 of the year
preceding the year in which the relevant master plan begins and notify the heads of the
relevant central administrative agencies, the Special Metropolitan City Mayor, Metropolitan
City Mayors, the Special Self-Governing City Mayor, Do Governors and the Governor of the
Special Self-Governing Province (hereinafter referred to as "Mayors/Do Governors") of such
guidelines. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) The heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors
shall prepare plans and policies concerning intellectual property under their jurisdictions
according to the guidelines notified under paragraph (2) and submit such plans and
policies to the Minister of Science and ICT by not later than June 30 of the year preceding
the year in which the relevant master plan begins. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2012; Apr. 10,
2018>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            5                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
(4) The Minister of Science and ICT shall, after deliberation by the Council, confirm a
master plan that is prepared by the integration of plans and policies submitted by the
heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors concerning
intellectual property under their jurisdictions pursuant to paragraph (3). <Amended on
Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017>
(5) When the Minister of Science and ICT formulates or revises a master plan, he or she
shall, without delay, inform the heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and
Mayors/Do Governors of the details thereof and officially announce such details in the
Official Gazette or on the homepage of the relevant central administrative agency.
<Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017>
(6) "Insignificant matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso to Article 8 (2) of
the Act means any of the following matters:
1. Composition and details of the practical tasks and detailed tasks included in the master
plan;
2. An agency in charge of the practical tasks and detailed tasks, or agencies related
thereto;
3. Other matters that do not affect the substantial details of the master plan, such as errors
in calculation, typographic errors and omissions.
 
Article 10 (Procedures for Formulation of Action Plans) (1) In order to formulate an action
plan for national intellectual property (hereinafter referred to as "action plan") under Article
9 (1) of the Act, the Minister of Science and ICT shall prepare guidelines for formulation of
the next year’s action plan by not later than October 31 every year and notify the heads of
the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors of such guidelines.
<Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017; Apr. 10, 2018>
(2) The heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors
shall formulate a promotion plan for intellectual property under their jurisdictions and
submit such plan to the Minister of Science and ICT by not later than January 15 every
year according to the guidelines notified under paragraph (1). <Amended on Mar. 23,
2013; Jul. 26, 2017; Apr. 10, 2018>
(3) The Minister of Science and ICT shall, after deliberation by the Council, confirm an
action plan prepared by the integration of the promotion plans submitted under paragraph
(2) by not later than March 31 every year and notify the heads of the relevant central

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            6                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors of the action plan. <Amended on Mar.
23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017; Apr. 10, 2018>
(4) "Insignificant matters prescribed by Presidential Decree" in the proviso to Article 9 (2) of
the Act means the following matters:
1. Timing to perform unit projects included in the action plan;
2. An agency in charge of each unit project, or agencies related thereto;
3. Other matters that do not affect the substantial details of the action plan, such as errors
in calculation, typographic errors and omissions.
 
Article 11 (Inspection and Evaluation of Status of Implementation) (1) In order to inspect and
evaluate the status of implementation under Article 10 (1) of the Act, the Council shall
prepare guidelines for inspection and evaluation and notify the heads of the relevant
central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors of such guidelines by not later
than October 31 of the year when the implementation of a master plan and of an action
plan is completed. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2012; Apr. 10, 2018>
(2) The heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors
shall submit the outcomes of implementation of the master plan and of the action plan to
the Council by the deadline referred to in the following subparagraphs according to the
guidelines notified under paragraph (1): <Amended on Apr. 10, 2018>
1. Master Plans: By not later than March 31 of the year following the year when the
relevant master plan is completed;
2. Action Plans: By not later than January 15 of the year following the year when the
relevant action plan is completed.
(3) The Council shall inspect and evaluate the outcomes of implementation of the master
plan and of the action plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (2), and then notify the
heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors of the
results thereof and of its opinion for the improvement thereof by the deadline referred to
in the following subparagraphs: <Amended on Apr. 10, 2018>
1. Master Plans: By not later than May 31 of the year following the year when the relevant
master plan is completed;
2. Action Plans: By not later than March 31 of the year following the year when the
relevant action plan is completed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            7                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
(4) The heads of the relevant central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors,
who are notified of the Council's opinion for improvement pursuant to paragraph (3), shall
formulate a plan necessary for such improvement and submit such plan to the Council
within 30 days upon receipt of such notification.
(5) If necessary to inspect the status of the implementation of a plan for improvement
submitted pursuant to paragraph (4), the Council may request the heads of the relevant
central administrative agencies and Mayors/Do Governors to submit related data pursuant
to Article 14 of the Act.
 
Article 12 (Analysis of Outcomes from Projects for Intellectual Property) (1) The Council shall
analyze the outcomes of projects for intellectual property (referring to projects financed
from the budget or funds in order to create, protect and utilize intellectual property,
develop the infrastructure thereof or foster related industries; hereinafter the same shall
apply) in order to deliberate on and coordinate matters concerning direction-setting for
distribution and efficient management of financial resources (hereinafter referred to as
"direction-setting for distribution of financial resources, etc.") related to intellectual
property under Article 6 (2) 3 of the Act. In such cases, the Council shall utilize the results
of evaluation under Article 12 of the Framework Act on Science and Technology for
research and development projects promoted by the Government (hereinafter referred to
as "national research and development projects") and the results of evaluation under
Article 85-8 (1) of the National Finance Act for financed projects, other than national
research and development projects. <Amended on Mar. 22, 2022>
(2) In order to analyze the outcomes of projects for intellectual property, the Council may
request the relevant central administrative agencies, local governments, related educational
and research institutions, corporations or organizations participating in projects for
intellectual property to submit necessary data, such as a project implementation plan
(including matters concerning plans and outcomes), pursuant to Article 14 of the Act.
 
Article 13 (Examination of and Deliberation on Direction-Setting for Distribution of Financial
Resources, etc. for Intellectual Property) (1) The Council may request the heads of the
relevant central agencies to submit the following data necessary for deliberation on and
coordination of direction-setting for distribution of financial resources, etc.:
1. A written opinion on the investment priority of national research and development
projects provided for in Article 12-2 of the Framework Act on Science and Technology;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            8                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
2. A medium term business plan for new projects for five or more fiscal years from the
relevant fiscal year provided for in Article 28 of the National Finance Act and for major
continuing projects determined by the Minister of Economy and Finance;
3. A written request for budget of the relevant agency submitted to the Minister of
Economy and Finance pursuant to Article 31 (1) of the National Finance Act;
4. Other data necessary for deliberation on and coordination of direction-setting for
distribution of financial resources, etc.
(2) Upon receipt of a request referred to in paragraph (1), the heads of the relevant central
agencies shall accept such request unless any justifiable grounds exist. <Newly Inserted on
Dec. 12, 2012>
(3)　When the Council has deliberated on direction-setting for distribution of financial
resources,  etc.,  it  may  express  its  opinion  to  the  heads  of  the  relevant  central
administrative agencies. In such cases, the heads of the relevant central administrative
agencies shall endeavor to reflect the Council's opinion.
 
Article 14 (Establishment of Secretariat) (1) The Council shall establish an Intellectual Property
Strategy and Planning Office (hereinafter referred to as the "Planning Office") therein
pursuant to Article 11 (1) and (3) of the Act to support the efficient performance of the
affairs thereof.
(2) One head, who is a public official in a fixed term position, shall be assigned to the
Planning Office: Provided, That in special circumstances, a public official in general service
belonging to the Ministry of Science and ICT may be assigned as the head.<Amended on Mar.
23, 2013; Nov. 20, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) The Planning Office shall perform the following affairs:
1. Matters concerning support for the operation of the Council, etc.;
2. Preparation and examination of and consultation on and coordination of agenda items
to be referred to the Council for deliberation;
3. Support for, consultation on and coordination of the formulation of master plans and
action plans;
4. Discovery and promotion of surveys and research related to intellectual property, and
support for projects for intellectual property;
5. Publicity of activities by the Council and external cooperation;

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            9                                                       국가법령정보센터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
6. Other matters directed by the Chairperson to support the performance of affairs of the
Council, etc.
 
Article 15 (Appointment of Officer in Charge of Policies for Intellectual Property) (1) The head
of each relevant central administrative agency and each Mayor/Do Governor may appoint
any of the following persons from among the public officials under his or her jurisdiction
as the officer in charge of policies for intellectual property pursuant to Article 12 of the
Act:
1. Relevant central administrative agencies: A public official belonging to the Senior Civil
Service and national public official in Class 3 or equivalent thereto;
2. Cities/Dos: A public official in Class 3 or equivalent thereto.
(2) Officers in charge of policies for intellectual property appointed under paragraph (1)
shall preside over the following matters related to the affairs of an agency to which he or
she belongs:
1. Formulation and coordination of policies and plans related to intellectual property;
2. Evaluation of projects related to intellectual property;
3. Investment in fields related to intellectual property;
4. Other affairs related to intellectual property of an agency to which he or she belongs.
 
Article 16 (Notification Following Enactment, Amendment, etc. of Related Acts and
Subordinate Statutes) (1) Where the head of each relevant central administrative agency or
each Mayor/Do Governor intends to enact or amend Acts or subordinate statutes pursuant
to Article 13 (1) of the Act or to formulate or revise a major policy or plan, he or she shall
notify the Council of the details thereof at the time according to the following
classification:
1. Enactment or amendment of Acts or subordinate statutes: When he or she submit a
draft of a proposed law to the heads of the relevant agencies pursuant to Article 11 (1)
and (2) of the Regulations for Operation of Legislation Affairs;
2. Formulation or revision of a major policy or plan: 30 days before the formulation or
revision thereof: Provided, That where Acts or subordinate statutes provide that he or she
shall consult on the relevant major policy or plan with the relevant agencies, when he or
she consults with the relevant agencies in accordance with such provisions.
(2) Where the Council examines the details of Acts or subordinate statutes or a major
policy or plan notified pursuant to paragraph (1), he or she shall examine their connectivity

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            10                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
with the master plan when such details are related to its medium- and long-term plan
concerning intellectual property.
(3) The Council shall notify the head of each relevant central administrative agency and
each Mayor/Do Governor of the result of evaluation under paragraph (2) in writing within
20 days from the date of receipt of notification under paragraph (1).
 
Article 17 (Preparation of Annual Reports) (1) The Minister of Science and ICT shall integrate
the outcomes of implementation of the action plan submitted pursuant to Article 11 (2),
and then prepare an annual report under Article 15 (1) of the Act and submit it to the
National Assembly by not later than March 31 every year. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul.
26, 2017>
(2) The following matters shall be included in an annual report:
1. Trends related to intellectual property;
2. Major details and the performance of the action plan for intellectual property in the
preceding year.
 
            CHAPTER III PROMOTION OF CREATION, PROTECTION AND UTILIZATION OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND DEVELOPMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE THEREOF
 
Article 18 (Promotion of Creation of Intellectual Property and Compensation Therefor) (1) The
following shall be included in policies for support for the invigoration of domestic and
overseas joint research and development of public research institutions, business operators,
etc. under subparagraph 6 of Article 16 of the Act:
1. Matters concerning the fair distribution and utilization of outcomes from joint research
and development and compensation therefor;
2. Matters concerning increasing investment in joint research and development and the
raising of funds therefor;
3. Matters concerning the mutual interchange, buildup of cooperation and joint utilization
of research and development resources among public research institutions, business
operators, etc.;
4. Other matters necessary for the invigoration of joint research and development.
(2) The following shall be included in policies for fair compensation for creators of
intellectual property under Article 19 of the Act:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            11                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
1. Matters concerning the betterment of treatment to creators of intellectual property;
2. Matters concerning research on the actual conditions and the improvement in laws and
systems in the Republic of Korea and overseas;
3.  Matters  concerning  education,  publicity  and  improving  of  understanding  of
compensation  for  creators  of  intellectual  property;
4. Matters concerning securing fairness and transparency in compensation for creators of
intellectual property and the simplification of procedures therefor;
5. Other matters necessary for the protection of the rights and interests of creators of
intellectual property.
 
Article 19 (Requesting Intelligence or Investigative Agencies for Cooperation) The Council and
the heads of the relevant central administrative agencies may request the head of an
intelligence or investigative agency for cooperation in the following matters pursuant to
Article 23 (2) of the Act:
1. Research on the current status related to the protection of intellectual property, such as
the current status of infringement on intellectual property rights;
2. Support for the settlement of disputes in intellectual property rights;
3. Requesting a foreign intelligence or investigative agency for necessary measures;
4. Support for security measures against hacking into an information network related to
intellectual property, etc.;
5. Support for research on and studies of the current status of systems and policies for
intellectual property in foreign countries, etc.;
6. Other matters necessary to cope with an infringement on intellectual property rights.
 
Article 20 (Protection of Intellectual Property in Foreign Countries) (1) Where the head of
each relevant central administrative agency deems it necessary for the Council to
deliberate on and coordinate in connection with the protection of intellectual property in
foreign countries under Article 24 of the Act, he or she may request the Council’s
deliberation pursuant to Article 6 (2) 5 of the Act.
(2) Upon receipt of a request provided for in Article 24 (2) of the Act from a national of
the Republic of Korea (including a corporation or organization established in accordance
with a municipal law) in a foreign country, the head of a diplomatic mission abroad shall
report such fact to the Minister of Foreign Affairs without delay. <Amended on Mar. 23,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            12                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
2013>
 
Article 21 (International Standardization of Intellectual Property) The head of each relevant
central administrative agency may execute the following projects concerning intellectual
property under his or her jurisdiction for the international standardization of intellectual
property pursuant to Article 30 of the Act:
1. A project for standardizing intellectual property;
2. A research and development project connected with the standardization of intellectual
property;
3. A project for establishing foundations for standardizing intellectual property;
4. A project for training experts in standardizing intellectual property;
5. Other projects necessary for standardizing intellectual property.
 
Article 22 (Preparation of Classified Table of National Intellectual Property) (1) In order to
establish a system for classifying information on intellectual property under Article 31 (1) 2
of the Act, the Minister of Science and ICT may prepare a classified table of national
intellectual property after deliberation by the Council. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26,
2017>
(2) The Minister of Science and ICT shall research and analyze trends of the classification of
intellectual property in foreign countries every three years, and revise and supplement the
classified table of national intellectual property under paragraph (1) in consideration of the
appearance, etc. of new intellectual property. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) The head of each relevant central administrative agency shall actively utilize the
classified table of national intellectual property provided for in paragraph (1) to perform
the following affairs:
1. Research planning, evaluation and management of projects for intellectual property;
2. Forecasts and valuation of intellectual property;
3. Management and distribution of information on intellectual property;
4. Formulation and execution of policies related to intellectual property.
 
Article 23 (Certification of Intellectual Property Management and Support Therefor) Pursuant
to Article 32 (2) of the Act, the head of each relevant central administrative agency may
certify intellectual property management of small and medium enterprises in the fields
under his or her jurisdiction, as prescribed by related Acts and subordinate statutes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
법제처                                                            13                                                       국가법령정보센
터
「ENFORCEMENT DECREE OF THE FRAMEWORK ACT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY」
Article 24 (Policies for Training Intellectual Property Experts) (1) Pursuant to Article 34 (1) of
the Act, the head of each relevant central administrative agency shall formulate and
promote policies for training intellectual property experts in the fields under his or her
jurisdiction.
(2) The following details shall be included in policies referred to in paragraph (1):
1. Medium- and long-term prospects on supply of and demand for intellectual property
experts;
2. A plan for training and supplying intellectual property experts;
3. Promotion of technical training and in-service training for intellectual property experts;
4. A plan for strengthening the quality of education on intellectual property.
 
Article 25 (Research and Studies by Intellectual Property Research Institutions) The Council
may have research institutions prescribed in Article 35 (1) of the Act conduct research and
studies necessary for performing the following affairs:
1. Deliberation on and coordination of matters referred to in the subparagraphs of Article
6 (2) of the Act;
2. Formulation of policies for promoting the production, distribution and utilization of
information on intellectual property under Article 31 of the Act;
3. Training of intellectual property experts under Article 34 of the Act;
4. Other affairs related to deliberation on and coordination by the Council.
 
Article 26 (Fostering Intellectual Property Research Institutes) Research institutes,
corporations, or organizations required to be fostered pursuant to Article 35 (1) and (2) of
the Act shall be research institutes, corporations, or organizations publicly notified by the
head of a relevant central administrative agency as deemed excellent in the research and
study in the field of intellectual property, the creation, protection, and utilization of
intellectual property, promotion and academic activities, etc. in relation to their duties.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 6, 2022]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
