Law Viewer
Back Home

REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE ACT

Wholly Amended by Act No. 10580, Apr. 12, 2011

Amended by Act No. 10693, May 19, 2011

Act No. 10924, Jul. 25, 2011

Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013

Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013

Act No. 12421, Mar. 18, 2014

Act No. 12420, Mar. 18, 2014

Act No. 12738, Jun. 3, 2014

Act No. 13435, Jul. 24, 2015

Act No. 13426, Jul. 24, 2015

Act No. 13797, Jan. 19, 2016

Act No. 13953, Feb. 3, 2016

Act No. 14901, Oct. 13, 2017

                                                    CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS
 Article 1
(Purpose)
The purpose of this Act is to prescribe matters concerning the registration of real estate.
 Article 2
(Definitions)
The terms used in this Act shall be defined as follows:
 1. The term "register" means a book drawn up from information and data on registration that have been entered into and processed by a
    computerized information processing system, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations;
2. The term "duplicate materials of register" means materials entered into an auxiliary memory device with the same content as the
   register;
3. The term "registration record" means information and data on registration concerning a parcel of land or a
   building;
4. The term "information on completion of registration" means information prepared by a registrar under Article 11 (1) in order to confirm
   the holder of a right where a new holder of a right is recorded in the register.
Article 3 (Registrable Rights,
etc.)
Registration shall be made for the indication of real estate and for the preservation, transfer, creation, change of, or restrictions on
disposal or extinguishment of any of the following rights:
1. Ownership;
2. Superficies;
3. Easement;
4. Rights to lease on a deposit
   basis;
5. Mortgage;
6. Pledge of
   rights;
7. Security rights over
   claims;
8. Leasehold interest.
Article 4 (Priority Order of
Rights)
(1) Except as otherwise prescribed by Acts, the priority order of rights registered on the same real estate shall accord with the order of
    registration.
(2) The priority order of registration made in the same Gu shall accord with the number of order; and the priority order of registration
    made in other Gus shall accord with the receipt number.
Article 5 (Priority Order of Supplementary
Registration)
The priority order of supplementary registrations shall accord with that of main registration:Provided, That the priority order among
supplementary registrations relating to main registration shall accord with the order of registration.
 Article 6 (Timing for Receipt of Applications for Registration and Timing for
Effectuation)
(1) An application for registration shall be deemed received as at the time information on the application for registration prescribed by the
     Supreme Court Regulations is stored in the computerized information processing system.
(2) Where a registrar under Article 11 (1) completes registration, the registration shall take effect as at the time of
    receipt.
                                                 CHAPTER II REGISTRIES AND REGISTRARS
Article 7 (Competent
Registries)
(1) A district court, its branch court or a registry (hereinafter referred to as "registry") having jurisdiction over the location of real estate
    shall take charge of registration duties.
 (2) If real estate spans over the jurisdictions of several registries, the head of a higher court having jurisdiction over the registries shall
     designate a registry, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
 Article 8 (Delegation of
Jurisdiction)
The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may have a registry delegate duties under its jurisdiction to another registry.
 Article 9 (Change of
Jurisdiction)
Where the jurisdiction of a parcel of real estate is changed to another registry, the former registry shall take measures to transfer the
authority of handling registration records concerning such real estate to another registry by using a computerized information processing
system.
 Article 10 (Suspension of Registration
Duties)
Where a cause to suspend registration duties arises in a registry, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may order the suspension of
registration duties during a specified period.
 Articles 11 (Handling of Registration
Duties)
 (1) Registration duties shall be handled by a person (hereinafter referred to as "registrar") designated by the chief judge of a district court
     (referring to the chief judge of a branch of a district court where the duties of a registry is under the responsibility of the chief judge of
     a branch of a district court; hereinafter the same shall apply) from among court officials of Grade IV, Grade V, Grade VI or Grade VII
     (including persons who passed an employment examination administered before Dec. 21, 2001 and since have been appointed to a
     respective post from among court officials of Grade V, Grade VI or Grade VII; hereinafter the same shall apply) serving in the registry.
(2) Registrars shall handle registration duties by recording matters to be registered in the register using a computerized information
    processing system.
(3) Registrars shall handle registration duties in the order of receipt
    number.
(4) When a registrar has handled registration duties, he/she shall take measures by which the registrar who has handled such registration
    duties can be identified.
Article 12 (Restrictions on Duties Handled by
Registrars)
(1) Where an applicant for registration is himself/herself, his/her spouse, or a first cousin or closer relative (hereinafter referred to as
    "spouse, etc."), he/she shall not handle registration duties without the participation of at least two adults having had ownership
    registered in the relevant registry, but are not the spouse, etc. of such registrar. The same shall apply where spousal relationship, etc.
    has ceased.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), a registrar shall prepare a report and put name and seal, or signature thereon together with
    participants.
Article 13 (Financial
Guarantee)
The Minister of the National Court Administration may determine and operate matters concerning the financial guarantee of registrars.
                                                       CHAPTER III REGISTERS, ETC.
Article 14 (Kinds of Registers,
etc.)
(1) Registers shall be classified into land registers and building
    registers.
(2) Registers shall be kept
    permanently.
(3) Registers shall be kept and maintained at a place prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations, and shall not be taken out of such
    place except for cases of seeking refuge from wars, natural disasters or any situation corresponding thereto.
 (4) No documents supplemental to registers shall be taken out of registries except for cases of seeking refuge from wars, natural
     disasters or any situation corresponding thereto: Provided, That this shall not apply where applications or other supplemental
     documents are to be taken out of registries by order or entrustment of a court or are confiscated with a warrant issued by a court
     judge.
 Article 15
(Realfolium)
 (1) When a register is compiled, one registration record shall be made for one parcel of land or one building: Provided, That where a
     building is divided into several sections, one registration record shall be made for the whole of the building.
(2) A registration record shall consist of title sections in which the indication of real estate is recorded, section A in which ownership is
    recorded and section B in which matters concerning rights, other than ownership, are recorded.
Article 16 (Preparation of Duplicate Data of
Registers)
When a registrar completes registration, he/she shall prepare duplicate data of registration.
Article 17 (Damage to Registers and Restoration
Thereof)
(1) Where all or part of a register is damaged or is likely to be damaged, the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court may order necessary
    disposition, such as restoration of the register, prevention of damage, etc., as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
(2) The Chief Judge of the Supreme Court may delegate authority concerning the order of disposition under paragraph (1) to the Minister
    of National Court Administration or the chief judges of district courts.
Article 18 (Measures for Prevention of Damage, etc. to Supplemental
Documents)
(1) Where documents supplemental to registers are likely to be damaged or lost, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may issue
    orders to prevent such damage.
(2) Article 17 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the orders of disposition under paragraph
    (1).
Article 19 (Perusal of Registered Matters and
Certification)
(1) Anyone may request a registry to allow him/her to peruse all or part of matters entered in a registration record or to issue a certificate
    of registered matters, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations, upon paying fees: Provided, That he/she may request a
    registry to allow him/her to peruse only the part of documents supplemental to a registration record in which he/she has interest.
(2) Requests for perusal and issuance of a certificate of registered matters under paragraph (1) may be also made at any registry in
    addition to the relevant registry.
(3) Fees under paragraph (1) and the scope of exemption therefrom shall be prescribed by the Supreme Court
    Regulations.
Article 20 (Closure of Registration
Records)
(1) When a registrar copies the whole of registered matters in a register in a new register, the previous one shall be
    closed.
(2) The closed register shall be kept
    permanently.
(3) Article 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis to closed
    registers.
Article 21 (Rearrangement of Overlapping Registration
Records)
(1) Where a registrar finds overlapping registration records of the same parcel of land, he/she shall close one of the overlapping
    registration records, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
(2) A registered titleholder whose registration record is closed pursuant to paragraph (1) or a party interested in such registration may
    request a registry to reinstate the closed registration record by verifying that the parcel of land belongs to the registered titleholder
    whose registration record is closed.
                                             CHAPTER IV PROCEDURES FOR REGISTRATION
                                                          Section 1 General Provisions
Article 22 (Principle of
Application)
(1) Registration shall be made by application of an interested party or on the entrustment of a public
    office.
(2) Unless otherwise prescribed by any Act to the contrary, provisions concerning registration by application shall apply mutatis mutandis
    to the procedures for registration on entrustment.
(3) Anyone who intends to file for a registration shall pay fees, as prescribed by the Supreme Court
    Regulations.
Article 23 (Applicants for
Registration)
(1) Unless prescribed otherwise by any Act, registration shall be applied jointly by a person entitled to file for a registration and a person
    obliged to file for a registration.
(2) Registration of preservation of ownership or registration of cancellation thereof shall be applied unilaterally by a person who is to be a
    titleholder or by a titleholder.
(3) Registration according to inheritance, merger of corporations and general succession prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations
    shall be applied unilaterally by a person entitled to file for a registration.
(4) Registration according to a court judgment shall be applied unilaterally by a person entitled to file for a registration or a person obliged
    to file for a registration who wins the case.
(5) Registration of change or correction of indication of real estate shall be applied unilaterally by a
    titleholder.
(6) Registration of change or correction of indication of a registered titleholder shall be applied unilaterally by the registered titleholder of
    the relevant right.
(7) Trust registration of real estate held in trust property shall be applied unilaterally by a trustee. <Added by Act No. 11826, May 28,
    2013>

(8) Where a trustee establishes a trust on trust property and puts it under the management of another person pursuant to Article 3 (5) of
    the Trust Act, the trustee of new trust shall be a registered titleholder for the registration of transfer of the right to real estate held in
    the relevant trust property and the trustee of original trust shall be a person obliged to file for a registration. In such cases, registration
    of trust of real estate held in the relevant trust property shall be applied unilaterally by the trustee of new trust pursuant to paragraph
    (7). <Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013>
Article 24 (Methods of Applying for
Registration)
(1) Registration shall be applied by any of the following methods: <Amended by Act No. 13953, Feb. 3,
    2016>
1. A method in which an applicant or his/her agent goes to a registry and submits documents stating application information and
   accompanying information: Provided, That when such agent is an attorney (including a law firm, a law firm with limited liability, and a
   judicial association; hereinafter the same shall apply) or a certified judicial scrivener (including a corporation of certified judicial
   scriveners and a corporation of certified judicial scriveners with limited liability; hereinafter the same shall apply), he/she may require a
   clerk prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations to go a registry and submit such documents;
2. A method in which application information and accompanying information are sent via a computerized data processing system, as
   prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations (limited to the type of registration designated by the Minister of Supreme Court
   Administration).
(2) Information on application and accompanying information to be provided by an applicant shall be prescribed by the Supreme Court
    Regulations.
Article 25 (Methods of Providing Information on
Application)
An application for registration shall be made by providing application information on a parcel of real estate for each application; Provided,
That where the purpose of registration and ground for registration are the same or in cases prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations,
application information on several parcels of real estate located in the jurisdiction of the same registry may be provided en bloc.
Article 26 (Applications for Registration by Associations, etc. Other Than
Corporations)
(1) As for the registration of real estate belonging to a clan, family, or association or foundation with a representative or manager, other
    than a corporation, such association or foundation shall be an entity entitled to file for a registration or an entity obliged to file for a
    registration.
(2) Registration under paragraph (1) shall be applied in the name of the association or foundation by its representative or
    manager.
Article 27 (Applications for Registration by General
Successors)
Where a person entitled to file for a registration or a person obliged to file for a registration comes into an inheritance or succeeds to a
universal title after grounds for registration arise, the inheritor or general successor may apply for registration.
Article 28 (Applications for Registration by Right of Subrogation of
Creditors)
(1) A creditor may apply for registration by subrogation of a debtor pursuant to Article 404 of the Civil
    Act.
(2) When a registrar files for a registration on an application by subrogation under paragraph (1) or other Acts and subordinate statutes,
     he/she shall record the name or title, address or location of an office of the subrogating party, and grounds for subrogation.
 Article 29 (Rejection of
Applications)
A registrar shall, only in any of the following cases, reject an application according to a decision stating the grounds therefor: Provided,
That this shall not apply where an applicant corrects errors by the day following the date on which the registrar orders the applicant to
correct errors, if such errors in the application can be corrected:
1. Where the case does not fall under the jurisdiction of such
   registry;
2. Where the case is not a matter to be
   registered;
3. Where registration is applied by a person who is not entitled to apply for
   registration;
4. Where an interested party or his/her agent is not present when registration is applied as prescribed in Article 24 (1)
   1;
5. Where the provision of information on application does not conform to a method prescribed by the Supreme Court
   Regulations;
6. Where the indication of real estate or a right which is the object of registration stated in the application information is not in conformity
   with the registration record;
7. Where the indication of a person obliged to file for a registration stated in the application information is not in conformity with the
   registration record: Provided, That where a general successor applies for registration pursuant toArticle 27, such case shall be
   excluded therefrom;
8. Where application information is not in conformity with information proving grounds for
   registration;
9. Where no accompanying information necessary for registration is
   provided;
10. Where acquisition tax (where it is paid in installments pursuant to Article 20-2 of the Local Tax Act, referring to an amount to be paid
    in installments before filing for a registration), registration license tax (applicable only to registration license tax on registration) or fees
    are not paid, or a duty imposed on the applicant by other Acts in connection with the application for registration is not performed;
11. Where the indication of real estate entered in the application information or registration record is not in conformity with that on the
     land cadastre, forest land cadastre or building ledger.
 Article 30 (Notification, etc. of Completion of
Registration)
When a registrar completes registration, he/she shall notify an applicant, etc. of such fact.
 Article 31 (Change of Administrative
Districts)
Where administrative districts or names thereof are changed, administrative districts or names thereof entered in the registration record
shall be deemed changed.
 Article 32 (Correction of
Registration)
(1) Where a registrar discovers an error or omission in the registration after he/she completes registration, he/she shall, without delay,
     notify a person entitled to file for a registration and a person obliged to file for a registration of such fact; where there in no one entitled
     to file for a registration or no one liable to file for a registration, he/she shall notify a registered titleholder of such fact: Provided, That
     where there are at least two persons entitled to file for a registration, persons liable to file for a registration or registered titleholders,
     respectively, he/she shall be allowed to notify one of them of such fact.
(2) Where a registrar discovers that an error or omission in the registration is due to his/her mistake, he/she shall, without delay, correct it
    ex officio: Provided, That where a third party having interest in the registration exists, the third party’s consent shall be obtained.
(3) Where a registrar corrects registration pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall notify such fact to a person entitled to file for a
    registration, person obliged to file for a registration or a registered titleholder. In such cases, proviso to paragraph (1) shall apply
    mutatis mutandis.
 (4) Where registration is completed by right of subrogation of a creditor, notification under paragraphs (1) and (3) may be given to the
     creditor. In such cases, proviso to paragraph (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
 Article 33 (Copying Registration Records into New Registration
Records)
Where needs to copy registration records into new registration records exist due to reasonable grounds, such as that too many matters
recorded in the registration records cause inconvenience in handling, etc., a registrar may copy only currently effective registration into
new registration records.
                                                       Section 2 Registration of Indication
Sub-Section 1 Registration of Indication of Land
 Article 34 (Matters to Be
Registered)
A registrar shall record the following matters in the title section of registration record:
 1. Indication number;
2. Date of
   receipt;
3. Location and lot number;
4. Land category;
5. Size;
6. Grounds for
   registration.
 Article 35 (Application for Registration of
Changes)
Where a parcel of land is subdivided or combined, or registered matters underArticle 34 are changed, a registered titleholder of the land
shall apply for registration within one month from the time such fact occurs.
 Article 36 (Registration of Change of Indication Ex
Officio)
(1) Where a registrar receives notification under Article 88 (3) of the Act on the Establishment, Management, etc. of Spatial Datafrom a
     competent administrative office in charge of land cadastre and a registered titleholder fails to apply for registration within a period
     under Article 35, he/she shall, without delay, register the changeex officio. <Amended by Act No. 12738, Jun. 3, 2014>
(2) Where a registrar makes a registration under paragraph (1), he/she shall, without delay, notify the fact to the competent administrative
    office in charge of land cadastre and a registered titleholder: Provided, That where at least two registered titleholders exist, he/she
    shall be allowed to notify one of them of the fact.
Article 37 (Restrictions on Combining Lots of
Land)
(1) With respect to land on which rights other than ownership, superficies, rights to lease on a deposit basis, leasehold interests, and
    easements on the subservient estate are registered, combination of lots of land shall not be registered: Provided, That this shall not
    apply where mortgages are created over all lots of land with the same grounds for registration, date and receipt number.
(2) When a registrar rejects an application for registration in violation of paragraph (1), he/she shall, without delay, notify the competent
    administrative office in charge of land cadastre of the grounds therefor.
Article 38 (Special Exceptions to Combining Lots of
Land)
(1) Even where the transfer of ownership is registered on part of land among land combined before the combination of lots of land is
    registered but after procedures for combining the lots of land under the Act on the Establishment, Management, etc. of Spatial Data
    are completed, registered owners of the relevant land may apply for the registration of combination of lots to co-own the land after
    combination of the lots if interested parties consent thereto. <Amended by Act No. 12738, Jun. 3, 2014>

(2) Even where a right corresponding to the grounds for restrictions on the registration of combination of lots of land prescribed in Article
    37 (1) is registered on a lot of land among land combined before the combination of lots of land is registered but after procedures for
    combining land pursuant to the Act on the Establishment, Management, etc. of Spatial Data are completed, a registered titleholders of
    ownership of the relevant land may apply for the registration of combination of lots of land which converts the object of their right into
    the ownership stake in the land after the combination of lots if interested parties give consent thereto: Provided, That where an
    easement is registered on the dominant estate, the registration of combination of lots shall be applied for an easement on the whole
    parcels of land after combination of lots. <Amended by Act No. 12738, Jun. 3, 2014>
Article 39 (Application for Registration of
Loss)
Where land is lost, a registered titleholder of the land shall apply for registration within one month from the time such incident occurs.
Sub-Section 2 Registration concerning Indication of Buildings
Article 40 (Matters to Be
Registered)
(1) A registrar shall record the following matters in the title section of registration record of a
    building:
1. Indication number;
2. Date of
   receipt;
3. Location, lot number and building number: Provided, That where only one building stands on the same lot number, building number
   shall not be recorded;
4. Kind, structure and size of building. Where an annexed building exists, the kind, structure and size of the annexed building shall also
   be recorded;
5. Grounds for
   registration;
6. Drawing number (limited to where several buildings stand on the same lot number and where a building (hereinafter referred to as
   "sectioned building") being the object of sectioned ownership as defined in subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on Ownership and
   Management of Condominium Buildings.
(2) Where a building to be registered is a sectioned building, a registrar shall record location, lot number, building name and building
    number in the title section of registration record of the building and building number in the title section of registration record of a part
    under exclusive ownership instead of location, lot number and building number under paragraph (1) 3.
(3) Where a right to use a site (hereinafter referred to as "right to a site") as defined in subparagraph 6 of Article 2 of the Act on
    Ownership and Management of Condominium Buildings, which cannot be alienated from a building and disposed of, is vested in a
    sectioned building, a registrar shall record matters concerning the indication of land being the object of a right to a site in the title
    section of registration record of a building and matters concerning the indication of a right to a site in the title section of registration
    record of a section under exclusive ownership, in addition to matters to be recorded as prescribed in paragraph (2).
(4) If a registrar registers a right to a site pursuant to paragraph (3), he/she shall, ex officio, record that ownership, superficies, a right to
    lease on a deposit basis or leasehold interest is a right to a site in the registration record of land being the object of a right to a site.
Article 41 (Application for Registration of
Changes)
(1) Where a building is divided, sectioned or combined with another building, or registered matters under Article 40 are changed, a
    titleholder of such building shall apply for registration within one month from the time such fact exists.
(2) As for a sectioned building and for which only indication is registered, a person falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 65
    shall apply for registration under paragraph (1).
(3) Where change or extinguishment of a right to a site exists in a sectioned building, a registered titleholder of a section may apply for
    the registration thereof in subrogation of the registered titleholders of other sections of the same building.
(4) Where a building is a sectioned one, the registration of change of registered matters recorded in the title section of a building among
    registration record of the building shall have the effect of registration of changes on other sections of the same building.
Article 42 (Restrictions on Combination of
Buildings)
(1) With respect to buildings over which rights other than ownership, a right to lease on a deposit basis and leasehold interests are
    registered, no registration of combination shall be made. In such cases, proviso to Article 37 (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) Where a registrar rejects an application for registration filed in violation of paragraph (1), he/she shall notify, without delay, the
    competent administrative agency in charge of building ledgers of the grounds therefor.
Article 43 (Application for Registration of
Destruction)
(1) Where a building is destroyed, a registered titleholder of such building shall apply for registration within one month from the time such
    incident occurs. In such cases, Article 41 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) If a registered titleholder fails to apply for the registration of destruction within one month, the owner of the site of such building may
    apply for registration in subrogation of the registered titleholder of the building.
(3) Where the whole of a sectioned building is destroyed, the registered titleholder of a section may apply for the registration of
    destruction of the whole building in subrogation of the registered titleholders of other sections of such building.
Article 44 (Non-Existence of
Buildings)

(1) Where registration of a nonexistent building exists, a registered titleholder of such building shall, without delay, apply for the
    registration of destruction of such building.
(2) Article 43 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis where a registered titleholder of such building fails to apply for registration as prescribed in
    paragraph (1).
(3) Where a building not in existence is a sectioned one, Article 43 (3) shall apply mutatis
    mutandis.
Article 45 (Destruction of Buildings with Parties Interested in
Registration)
(1) Where registration of destruction is applied on a building for which a right other than ownership is registered, a registrar shall notify
    the registered titleholder of such right of the purport that registration of destruction is to be made unless he/she raises an objection
    within a specified period of up to one month: Provided, That where the purport of destruction of building is recorded in the building
    ledger or the registered titleholder of a right other than ownership agrees to the registration of destruction, this shall not apply.
(2) Articles 58 (2) through (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases falling under the main body of paragraph
    (1).
Article 46 (Registration concerning Indication of Sectioned
Buildings)
(1) Where registration of preservation of ownership is applied for only part of a sectioned building, registration of indication shall be
    applied simultaneously with the rest of the sectioned building.
(2) In cases falling under paragraph (1), the owner of a sectioned building may apply for the registration of indication of the building in
    subrogation of the owners of other sections of the building.
(3) Where registration of preservation of ownership is applied for a sectioned building built adjoining a building registered as a non-
    sectioned building, registration of change of indication of building shall be simultaneously applied for the non-sectioned building to
    register it as a sectioned building. In such cases, paragraph (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis
Article 47 (Registration of Section for Common Use under Agreement and Registration Following Repeal of
Agreement)
(1) Registration to the effect that it is a section for common use under Article 3 (4) of Act on Ownership and Management of
    Condominium Buildings shall be applied by a registered titleholder. In such cases, where registration of a right other than ownership
    exists on a section for common use, consent from the registered titleholder of such right shall be obtained.
(2) Where an agreement to the effect that it is a section for common use is repealed, the acquirer of the section for common use shall,
    without delay, apply for the registration of preservation of ownership.
                                                    Section 3 Registration concerning Rights
Sub-Section 1 Common Provisions
Article 48 (Matters to Be
Registered)
(1) When a registrar registers rights in Section A or Section B, he/she shall record the following
    matters:
1. Priority number;
2. Purpose of
   registration;
3. Date of receipt and receipt
   number;
4. Grounds for registration and date
   thereof;
5. Titleholder.
(2) When matters concerning a titleholder under paragraph (1) 5 are recorded, a resident registration number or registration number for
    the registration of real estate, and address or location of office shall also be recorded in addition to the name or title of the titleholder.
(3) When any registration is made in the name of an association or foundation, other than corporation as prescribed in Article 26, the
    name, address and resident registration number of its representative or manager shall also be recorded.
(4) Where the number of titleholders under paragraph (1) 5 is at least two, the ownership stake of each titleholder shall be recorded; if a
    right to be registered is included therein, the purport shall be recorded.
Article 49 (Procedures for Assigning Registration
Numbers)
(1) A registration number for registration of real estate (hereinafter referred to as "registration number") under Article 48 (2) shall be
    assigned according to the following methods: <Amended by Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013; Act No. 12421, Mar. 18, 2014; Act No.
    13426, Jul. 24, 2015>
1. Registration numbers for the State, local governments, international organizations and foreign governments shall be designated and
   publicly notified by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport;
2. A registration number shall be assigned to a Korean national residing abroad with no resident registration number by the registrar of a
   registry having jurisdiction over the location of the Supreme Court, and a registration number shall be assigned to a corporation by the
   registrar of a registry having jurisdiction over the location of its principal office (referring to the head office in cases of a company; and
   to a sales office or branch office in Korea, the establishment of which is first registered in cases of a foreign company);
3. A registration number shall be assigned to an association or foundation other than a juristic person and to a foreign corporation that
   has not registered its sales office or branch office in Korea by the head of a Si (including the heads of administrative Sis under Article
   10 (2) of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International
   City, but excluding the heads of Sis that have Gus other than an autonomous Gu as prescribed in Article 3 (3) of the Local Autonomy
   Act), Gun or Gu (including the head of a Gu, other than an autonomous Gu);
4. A registration number shall be assigned to a foreigner by the head of a local immigration office having jurisdiction over his/her place of
   sojourn (if he/she has no place of sojourn in Korea, the seat of the Supreme Court shall be deemed his/her place of sojourn).
(2) Procedures for assigning registration numbers pursuant to paragraph (1) 2 shall be prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations,
    and procedures for assigning registration numbers pursuant to paragraph (1) 3 and 4 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
Article 50 (Information on Completion of
Registration)
(1) Where a registrar completes registration of a new right, he/she shall prepare information on completion of registration and notify it to a
    registered titleholder: Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases:
1. Where the registered titleholder declines to be notified of information on completion of
   registration;
2. Where the State or a local government is the registered
   titleholder;
3. Cases prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations, in addition to those under subparagraphs 1 and
   2.
 (2) Where a registered titleholder and a person liable to make a registration jointly apply for registration of a right, applicants shall supply
      information on completion of registration of a person obliged to make a registration that has been notified together with information on
      application to the registry. The same shall also apply to cases in which a person liable to make a registration who wins a suit applies
      for the registration of a right unilaterally.
 Article 51 (Non-Existence of Information on Completion of
Registration)
Where information on completion of registration of a person obliged to make a registration does not exist in cases underArticle 50 (2), the
person obliged to make a registration or his/her legal representative (hereinafter referred to as "person obliged to make a registration, etc.)
shall appear in the registry and obtain confirmation from the registrar that he/she is a person obliged to make a registration, etc.: Provided,
That this shall not apply where the fact that the representative (referring only to an attorney or certified judicial scrivener) of applicants is
delegated by a person obliged to make a registration, etc. is confirmed or the part to be prepared by a person obliged to make a
registration, etc. in an application (where a representative by delegation files an application, referring to documents verifying his/her
authority) has been notarized.
 Article 52 (Supplementary Registration)
When a registrar registers the following matters, he/she shall make a supplementary registration:Provided, That this shall not apply where
consent is not given by a third party with an interest in registration under subparagraph 5:
 1. Registration of change or correction of the indication of a registered
    titleholder;
2. Registration of transfer of a right other than
   ownership;
3. Registration of a right with a purpose of a right other than
   ownership;
4. Registration of restrictions on disposal of a right other than
   ownership;
5. Registration of change or correction of a
   right;
6. Registration of special agreements for repurchase under Article
   53;
7. Registration of agreements for the extinguishment of a right under Article
   54;
8. Registration of agreements for prohibition against division of co-owned property under the latter part of Article 67
   (1);
9. Registration prescribed by the Supreme Court
   Regulations.
Article 53 (Registration of Special Agreements for
Repurchase)
When a registrar registers a special agreement for repurchase, he/she shall record the following matters;Provided, That only where
grounds for registration specify to record matters under subparagraph 3, such matters shall be recorded:
1. The amount paid by a
   purchaser;
2. Expenses incurred in relation to the sale and
   purchase;
 3. Period of
    repurchase.
 Article 54 (Registration of Agreements on Extingishment of
Rights)
Where an agreement on the extinguishment of a right is included in the grounds for registration, an applicant may apply for the
registration of such agreement.
Article 55 (Extinguishment of Rights Due to Death, etc. and Registration of
Cancellation)
Where an agreement that a right extinguishes following the death of a person or the dissolution of a corporation, who is a registered
titleholder, is registered, and such right extinguishes following death of the person or dissolution of the corporation, a person entitled to
make a registration may unilaterally apply for the cancellation of such registration by proving such fact.
 Article 56 (Unknown Whereabouts of Person obliged to Make a Registration and Registration of
Cancellation)
 (1) Where a person entitled to make a registration is unable to apply for the cancellation of registration jointly with a person obliged to
     make a registration due to his/her unknown whereabouts, he/she may apply for public summons, as prescribed by the Civil Procedure
     Act.
 (2) Where a judgment of nullification exists in cases falling under paragraph (1), a person entitled to make a registration may unilaterally
     apply for the cancellation of registration by proving such fact.
 Article 57 (Cancellation of Registration with Third Parties Having
Interest)
 (1) Where the cancellation of registration is applied and a third party with an interest in the registration exists, consent from such third
     party is required.
(2) Where registration is cancelled pursuant to paragraph (1), a registrar shall cancel registration in the name of a third party with an
    interest in the registration ex officio.
Article 58 (Cancellation of Registration Ex
Officio)
(1) If a registrar finds that registration corresponds to subparagraph 1 or 2 of Article 29 after he/she completes the registration, he/she
    shall notify a person entitled to make a registration, person obliged to make a registration and third party with an interest in the
    registration of the purport that he/she is going to cancel the registration within a specified period of up to one month if no objection is
    raised.
(2) If the address or abode of a person who is to receive notification under paragraph (1) is unknown, such notification shall be posted on
    the bulletin board of the registry during the period under paragraph (1) or be publicly announced, as prescribed by the Supreme Court
    Regulations, in place of notification under paragraph (1).
(3) If a person raises objection to cancellation under paragraph (1), a registrar shall make a decision on such
    objection.
 (4) Where no person raises objection during a period under paragraph (1) or an objection is rejected, a registrar shall cancel the
     registration under paragraph (1) ex officio.
 Article 59 (Reinstatement of Cancelled
Registration)
Where the reinstatement of cancelled registration is applied and a third party with an interest in the registration exists, consent from such
third party shall be required.
 Article 60 (Acquisition of Rights to Use
Sites)
 (1) Where a person who built a sectioned building has a right to use a site as defined in subparagraph 6 of Article 2 of the Act on
     Ownership and Management of Condominium Buildings and he/she has completed registration of transfer of ownership over the
     sectioned building only without registering a right to use the site, he/she may apply for registration of transfer of a right to use the site
     jointly with the current titleholder of the sectioned building.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis where a person who has built and transferred a sectioned building agrees to acquire and
    transfer a right to use the site of such building afterward.
(3) Registration under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be applied simultaneously with the registration of a right to a
    site.
Article 61 (Where Right to Site Is Registered in Registration Records of Sectioned
Buildings)
(1) Registration of a right to a building made after a right to a site is registered shall have the same effect on a right to the site: Provided,
    That this shall not apply where a purport that such registration is for only the building is supplementarily recorded.
(2) The priority order of registrations made in a Gu among registrations having an effect as registration of a right to a site under paragraph
    (1) and registration record of land being the object of a right to a site shall accord with the receipt number.
(3) On the registration record of a sectioned building for which a right to a site is registered, a registration for transfer of ownership,
    registration for settlement of mortgage or other registration relating thereto over the building only shall not be made.
(4) On the registration record of land for which a purport that it is a right to a site is registered where ownership of land is a right to a site,
    a registration of transfer of ownership, registration of settlement of mortgage or other registration relating thereto shall not be made.
(5) Paragraph (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis where superficies, a right to lease on a deposit base or leasehold interest is a right to a
     site.
 Article 62 (Notification of Change of
Ownership)
Where a registrar registers the following matters, he/she shall, without delay, notify such fact to an administrative agency in charge of
cadastre in the case of land, and to an administrative agency in charge of a building ledger in the case of a building:
1. Preservation or transfer of
   ownership;
2. Change or correction of indication of a registered
   titleholder;
3. Change or correction of
   ownership;
4. Cancellation of ownership or reinstatement from
   cancellation.
 Article 63 (Provision of Taxation
Data)
Where a registrar completes the registration of preservation or transfer of ownership (including provisional registration), he/she shall notify
such fact to the head of a district tax office having jurisdiction over the location of real estate.
Sub-Section 2 Registration concerning Ownership
 Article 64 (Matters to Be Registered in Registration of Preservation of
Ownership)
When a registrar registers the preservation of ownership, he/she shall not record grounds for registration and the date thereof,
notwithstanding Article 48 (1) 4.
 Article 65 (Applicants for Registration of Preservation of
Ownership)
Any of the following persons may apply for the registration of preservation of ownership of unregistered land or buildings:
1. An initial owner registered in the land cadastre, forest land cadastre or building cadastre, his/her heir or a general
   successor;
2. A person who verifies his/her ownership by a court
   ruling;
3. A person who verifies that he/she has acquired ownership by
   expropriation.
4. A person who verifies his/her ownership (limited to buildings) through the confirmation of the Governor of a Special Self-Governing
   Province, or the head of a Si, Gun, Gu (referring to the head of an autonomous Gu).
Article 66 (Registration of Restrictions on Disposal of Unregistered Real Estate and Preservation Ex
Officio)
(1) If a registrar registers restrictions on the disposal of ownership of unregistered real estate on the entrustment of a court, he/she shall
    register the preservation of ownership ex officio, and record the purport that he/she registers ownership in accordance with a ruling of
    the court ordering him/her to register restrictions on disposal.
(2) Article 65 shall not apply where a registrar registers the preservation of ownership of a building pursuant to paragraph (1):Provided,
    That where approval for use has not been obtained even though such building is subject to approval for use under the Building Act,
    such fact shall be stated in the title section of the register.
(3) Where approval for use under the Building Act is granted on a building registered pursuant to the proviso to paragraph (2), a
    registered titleholder of such building shall, within a month, apply for registration of cancellation of record under proviso to paragraph
    (2).
Article 67 (Partial Transfer of
Ownership)
(1) When a registrar registers the transfer of part of ownership, he/she shall record ownership stake to be transferred. In such cases,
    where an agreement under proviso to Article 268 (1) of the Civil Act exists in the grounds for registration, such agreement shall also
    be recorded.
(2) The registration of change of an agreement under the latter part of paragraph (1) shall be applied jointly by all the co-
    owners.
Article 68 (Registration of Transaction
Value)
Where a registrar registers the transfer of ownership with a contract underArticle 3 (1) of the Act on Report on Real Estate Transactions,
Etc. as the grounds for registration, he/she shall record transaction value, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.<Amended by
Act No. 13435, Jul. 24, 2015; Act No. 13797, Jan. 19, 2016>
Sub-Section 3 Registration concerning Usufructuary Rights
Article 69 (Matters to Be Registered in
Superficies)
Where a registrar registers the creation of superficies, he/she shall record the following matters in addition to matters prescribed in Article
48: Provided, That only if grounds for registration include an agreement, subparagraphs 3 through 5 shall be recorded:
1. Purpose of creating
   superficies;
2. Scope;
3. Period of
   existence;
4. Rent and timing of
   payment;
5. Agreement under the latter part of Article 289-2 (1) of the Civil
   Act;
6. Where the scope of creation of superficies is part of land, the number of drawings indicating such
   part.
Article 70 (Matters to Be Registered in
Easements)
Where a registrar registers the creation of an easement, he/she shall record following matters in addition to the matters prescribed in
Article 48 (1) 1 through 4: Provided, That only if grounds for registration includes an agreement, subparagraph 4 shall be recorded:
1. Purpose of creating
   easement;
2. Scope;
3. Dominant estate;
4. Agreement under proviso to Article 292 (1), proviso to Article 297 (1), or Article 298 of the Civil
   Act;
5. Where the creation of easement is registered over part of servient estate, the number of drawings indicating such
   part.
Article 71 (Matters to Be Registered in Easements of Dominant
Estate)
(1) Where a registrar registers the creation of easement in servient estate, he/she shall record the following matters in the registration
    record of dominant estate:
1. Number of priority
   order;
2. Purpose of
   registration;
3. Servient estate;
4. Purpose of creating
   easement;
5. Scope;
6. Date of
   registration.
(2) If servient estate belongs to the jurisdiction of another registry, a registrar shall, without delay, notify such registry of the servient
    estate, dominant estate, purpose and scope of creating easement and the date when an application is received.
(3) The registrar of the registry that receives notification under paragraph (2) shall, without delay, record matters under subparagraphs 1
    through 5, and the date and receipt number of such notification in the registration record of the real estate which is dominant estate.
(4) Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis where a registrar registers the change or cancellation of
    easement.
Article 72 (Matters to Be Registered in Rights to Lease on Deposit Basis,
etc.)
(1) Where a registrar registers the creation of a right to lease on a deposit basis or sublease on a deposit basis, he/she shall record the
    following matters in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48: Provided, That only if grounds for registration include an agreement,
    subparagraphs 3 through 5 shall be recorded:
1. Security deposit for lease on a deposit basis or security deposit for sublease on a deposit
   basis;
2. Scope;
3. Period of
   existence;
4. Penalty for breach of an
   agreement;
5. An agreement under proviso to Article 306 of the Civil
   Act;
6. Where the scope of creation of a right to lease on a deposit basis or the scope of sublease is part of real estate, the number of
   drawings indicating such part.
(2) Article 78 shall apply mutatis mutandis where the creation of a right to lease on a deposit basis aiming at rights to several parcels of
    real estate is registered.
Article 73 (Registration of Partial Transfer of Rights to Lease on Deposit Basis Following Partial Transfer of Claim for Refund of Security
Deposit)
(1) Where a registrar registers partial transfer of a right to lease on a deposit basis on the grounds of partial transfer of claim for refund of
    security deposit, he/she shall record the amount of transfer.
 (2) The registration of partial transfer of a right to lease on a deposit basis under paragraph (1) shall not be applied before the period of
     existence of a right to lease on a deposit basis expires; Provided, That this shall not apply where registration is applied by verifying
     that relevant right to lease on a deposit basis has expired even before the period of existence expires.
 Article 74 (Matters to Be Registered in Leasehold Interests,
etc.)
Where a registrar registers the creation of leasehold interests or the sublease of leased objects, he/she shall record the following matters
in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48: Provided, That if grounds for registration include matters under subparagraphs 3 through 5,
subparagraphs 3 through 5 shall be recorded:
 1. Rent;
2. Timing for paying
   rents;
3. Period of existence: Provided, That where it is a short-term lease under Article 619 of the Civil Act by a lessor having no capability or
   authority of disposal, such purport shall also be recorded;
4. Security deposit for lease;
5. Consent from a lessor concerning the transfer of leasehold interest or sublease of leased
   objects;
6. Where the scope of creation of leasehold interest or the scope of sublease of leased objects is part of real estate, the number of
   drawings indicating such part.
Sub-Section 4 Registration concerning Security Rights
Article 75 (Matters to Be Registered in
Mortgage)
(1) Where a registrar registers the creation of mortgage, he/she shall record the following matters in addition to matters prescribed in
    Article 48: Provided, That only if grounds for registration include an agreement, subparagraphs 3 through 8 shall be recorded:
1. Amount of
   claim;
2. Name or title of an obligee and his/her address or location of his/her
   office;
3. Timing for paying
   reimbursement;
4. Interest, date on which interest accrues and date of payment of
   interest;
5. Place for paying principal or
   interest;
6. Agreement on compensation for damage due to
   default;
7. Agreement under proviso to Article 358 of the Civil
   Act;
8. Conditions of
   claim.
(2) Where the contents of mortgage under paragraph (1) are collateral security, the following matters shall be recorded in addition to
    matters prescribed in Article 48: Provided, That only if grounds for registration include an agreement, subparagraphs 3 and 4 shall be
    recorded:
1. Maximum amount of
   claim;
2. Name or title of a debtor and his/her address or location of his/her
   office;
3. Agreement under proviso to Article 358 of the Civil
   Act;
4. Period of
   existence.
Article 76 (Matters to Be Registered in Pledge Right against Mortgage-Backed
Credit)
(1) Where a registrar registers a pledge right against mortgage-backed credit pursuant to Article 348 of the Civil Act, he/she shall record
    the following matters in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48:
1. Amount of credit or maximum amount of
   credit;
2. Name or title of a debtor and his/her address or location of an
   office;
3. Where an agreement states the period of reimbursement and interest, the details
   thereof.
(2) Where a registrar registers a right to claim security under Article 348 of the Civil Act being applied mutatis mutandis in Article 37 of
    the Act on Security over Movable Property, Claims, etc., he/she shall record the following matters in addition to matters prescribed in
    Article 48:
1. Amount of claim or maximum amount of
   claim;
2. Name or title of a debtor and his/her address or location of an
   office;
3. Where an agreement states the period of reimbursement and interest, the details
   thereof.
 Article 77 (Where Secured Claim Does Not Aim at
Amount)
Where a registrar registers the creation of a mortgage right in order to guarantee a claim that does not aim at a certain amount, he/she
shall record the assessed amount of the claim.
 Article 78 (Registration of Joint
Mortgages)
(1) Where a registrar registers the creation of mortgage aiming at a right to several parcels of real estate for the same claim, he/she shall
     record a purport in the registration record of each parcel of real estate that a right to such parcel of real estate is provided as the
     purpose of mortgage together with rights to other parcels of real estate.
(2) Where real estate in cases falling under paragraph (1) is at least five parcels, a registrar shall prepare a list of joint
    mortgages.
(3) The list of joint mortgages under paragraph (2) shall be deemed part of a registration
    record.

(4) Where a registrar registers the creation of mortgage aiming at a right to one or several parcels of real estate, and thereafter registers
    the creation of mortgage aiming at a right to another one or several parcels of real estate for the same claim, he/she shall record a
    purport that a right to each parcel of real estate is provided all together as the object of mortgage on the registration record and
    previous registration record. In such cases, paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
 (5) Article 71 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis where real estate registered previously belongs to the jurisdiction of another
     registry in cases falling under paragraph (4).
 Article 79 (Matters to Be Registered in Registration of Transfer of Part of Mortgages Due to Transfer of Part of Claim or Subrogated
Reimbursement)
Where a registrar registers the transfer of part of mortgage due to the transfer of part of claim or subrogated reimbursement, he/she shall
record the amount of transfer or amount of reimbursement in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48.
 Article 80 (Registration of Joint Mortgage by
Subrogation)
 (1) Where a registrar makes a registration under the latter part of Article 368 (2) of the Civil Act by subrogation, he/she shall record the
     following matters in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48:
1. Sold real estate (where a right other than ownership is the object of mortgage, referring to such
   right);
2. Sale amount;
3. Amount that a prior mortgagee receives as
   reimbursement.
(2) Article 75 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the registration under paragraph
    (1).
Sub-Section 5 Registration concerning Trust
Article 81 (Matters to Be Registered in Trust
Registration)
(1) Where a registrar makes a trust registration, he/she shall prepare a trust ledger in which the following matters are recorded, and
    record the number of a trust ledger in the registration record in addition to matters prescribed in Article 48: <Amended by Act No.
    12420, Mar. 18, 2014>
1. Name and address of a truster, trustee and beneficiary (in the case of a corporation, referring to the name and location of an
   office);
2. Where a person is determined to be given the authority to designate or change a beneficiary, the name and address of such person (in
   the case of a corporation, referring to the name and location of an office);
3. Where a method of designating or changing a beneficiary is determined, such
   method;
4. Where a condition on the occurrence and extinguishment of a beneficiary right exists, such
   condition;
5. Where a trust administrator is designated, the name and address of a trust administrator (in the case of a corporation, referring to the
   name and location of an office);
6. In cases of a trust for a specific purpose without any beneficiary, the
   purport;
7. Where a truster creates a trust to another person pursuant to Article 3 (5) of the Trust Act, the
   purport;
8. In cases of a testamentary substitute under Article 59 (1) of the Trust Act, the
   purport;
9. In cases of a trust for successive beneficiaries under Article 60 of the Trust Act, the
   purport;
10. In cases of a trust issuing beneficiary certificates under Article 78 of the Trust Act, the
    purport;
11. In cases of a public trust under the Public Trust Act, the
    purport;
12. In cases of a limited liability trust under Article 114 (1) of the Trust Act, the
    purport;
13. Purpose of
    trust;
14. Management, disposal, operation and development of trust property and methods necessary for achieving the purpose of a
    trust;
15. Grounds for terminating a trust;
16. Other provisions concerning
    trust.
(2) If any registration concerning paragraph (1) 5, 6, 10 and 11 is made, a registrar may elect not to record the name and address of
    beneficiaries.
(3) The trust ledger under paragraph (1) shall be deemed part of a registration
    record.
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 82 (Methods of Applying for Trust
Registration)
 (1) An application to register a trust shall be filed simultaneously with an application to register the creation, preservation, transfer or
     change of a right to the relevant real estate.
(2) A beneficiary or truster may apply for the registration of a trust in subrogation of a trustee. In such cases, paragraph (1) shall not
    apply.
 (3) Article 28 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis to an application for registration in subrogation under paragraph
     (2).
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 82-2 (Application for Registration of Trust Following Merger, Division, etc. of
Trusts)
 (1) Where a right to real estate held in a piece of trust property devolves on the trust property of another trust due to the merger or
     division of a trust, an application for the registration of cancellation of registration of trust and for the registration of new trust shall be
     filed simultaneously with an application for the registration of change of a right due to the merger or division of trusts.
 (2) Where a trustee who undertakes several trusts pursuant to Article 34 (1) 3 of the Trust Actand to paragraph (2) of the same Article
     vests authority on real estate held in a piece of trust property in the trust property of another trust, paragraph (1) shall apply mutatis
     mutandis to the method of applying for the registration of trust.
[This Article Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 83 (Registration Due to Completion of Duties of
Trustees)
Where the duties of a trustee are completed, because any of the following is applicable, a new trustee may unilaterally apply for the
registration of transfer of a right to real estate held in trust property: <Amended by Act No. 12420, Mar. 18, 2014>
 1. Where the duties of a trustee are completed because any of the subparagraphs of Article 12 (1) is
    applicable;
2. Where a trustee is relieved of his/her post pursuant to Article 16 (1) of the Trust
   Act;
3. Where a court dismisses a trustee pursuant to Article 16 (3) of the Trust
   Act;
 4. Where the Minister of Justice dismisses the trustee of a public trust ex officio pursuant to Article 27 of the Public Trust
    Act.
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 84 (Where Several Trustees
Exist)
 (1) Where several trustees exist, a registrar shall record the purport that trust property is owned in
     partnership.
 (2) Where the duties of a trustee among the several trustees are completed due to a reason under any of the subparagraphs of Article
     83, another trustee may unilaterally apply for the registration of change of a right. In such cases, if the number of another trustee is
     more than one, all of them shall jointly file an application.
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 84-2 (Special Exceptions to Application for Registration of Trust
Property)
In any of the following circumstances, a trustee may unilaterally apply for the registration of change of a right to real estate held in the
relevant trust property:
 1. Where a trust is created pursuant to Article 3 (1) 3 of the Trust
    Act;
2. Where any of the following is permitted because any of the subparagraphs of Article 34 (2) of the Trust Act is
   applicable:
(a) Vesting authority on real estate held in trust property by a trustee in personal
    property;
(b) Vesting authority on real estate held in personal property by a trustee in trust
    property;
(c) Vesting authority on real estate held in a piece of trust property by a trustee who undertakes several trusts in the trust property of
    another trust.
 3. Where a trustee merges, divides or divides and merges several trusts pursuant to Article 90 or 94 of the Trust
    Act.
[This Article Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 85 (Registration of Change of Trust by
Entrustment)
 (1) Where a court holds any of the following trials, it shall, without delay, entrust a registry with the registration of change of records in the
     trust ledger:
1. A trial dismissing a
   trustee;
2. A trial appointing or dismissing a trust
   administrator;
3. A trial changing a trust.
(2) In any of the following cases, the Minister of Justice shall, without delay, entrust a registry with the registration of change of records in
    the trust ledger: <Amended by Act No. 12420, Mar. 18, 2014>
1. Where it dismisses a trustee ex
   officio:
2. Where it appoints or dismisses a trust administrator ex
   officio:
3. Where it issues an order to change the contents of a
   trust.
 (3) Where a registrar registers change of record in the trust ledger concerning the dismissal of a trustee by entrustment of a court or
     competent administrative agency pursuant to paragraph (1) 1 or paragraph (2) 1, it shall add the purport of dismissal of the trustee to
     the registration record ex officio.
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 85-2 (Registration of Change of Trust Ex
Officio)
Where a registrar makes any of the following registrations of a right to real estate held in trust propertyex officio, he/she shall register the
change of records in the trust ledger concerning such real estate:
 1. Registration of transfer due to the change of a
    trustee;
2. Registration of change due to the completion of duties of one of several
   trustees;
 3. Registration of change or registration of correction concerning the name and address of a registered titleholder who is a trustee
    (referring to the name and location of an office in cases of a corporation).
[This Article Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 86 (Application for Registration of Change of
Trust)
Except in cases corresponding to Articles 85 and 85-2, a trustee shall, without delay, apply for the registration of change of records in the
trust ledger if matters under the subparagraphs of Article 81 (1) are changed. <Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013>
 Article 87 (Cancellation of Registration of
Trust)
 (1) Where a right held in trust property is no longer held in the trust property because such right is transferred, changed or has ceased,
     an application for cancellation shall be filed simultaneously with an application for registration of transfer, change or cancellation of a
     right held in a trust.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis where a right held in trust property is transferred or has ceased due to the termination of a
    trust.
(3) Registration of cancellation of the registration of a trust may be applied unilaterally by a
    trustee.
 (4) Article 82 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to an application for registration of cancellation of the registration of a
     trust.
[This Article Wholly Amended by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 87-2 (Special Exceptions to Security
Trusts)
 (1) In cases of a trust in which a mortgage, created by a truster on real estate owned by himself/herself or a third party and with a trustee,
     other than a creditor, as the mortgagee, is trust property and the creditor is designated as a beneficiary, a registrar shall record
     registered matters under Article 75 by classifying them by each claim if the number of secured claims secured by mortgage are many
     and each secured claim has registered matter under Article 75 different from each other.
(2) Where a secured claim secured by a mortgage held in trust property of a trust under paragraph (1) is transferred, the trustee shall
    apply for the registration of change of records in the trust ledger.
 (3) Article 79 shall not apply where the transfer of a mortgage held in the trust property of a trust under paragraph (1) is
     registered.
[This Article Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
 Article 87-3 (Registration of Trust for Which Trust Property Administrator Is
Appointed)
In cases of a trust for which a trust property administrator is appointed pursuant toArticle 17 (1) or 18 (1) of the Trust Act, a "trustee" shall
be construed as a "trust property administrator" for purposes of Articles 23 (7) and (8), 81, 82, 82-2, 84 (1), 84-2 and 85 (1) and (2),
subparagraph 3 of Article 85-2, Articles 86, 87 and 87-2.
[This Article Added by Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013]
Sub-Section 6 Provisional Registration
 Article 88 (Objects of Provisional
Registration)
Provisional registration shall be made if a right of claim for the creation, transfer, change or extinguishment of a right corresponding to any
of the subparagraphs of Article 3 is to be preserved. The same shall also apply where such right of claim is effective when the time
comes, is under condition precedent, or is to be determined in the future.
 Article 89 (Methods of Applying for Provisional
Registration)
Notwithstanding Article 23 (1), a person entitled to make a provisional registration may unilaterally apply for a provisional registration if a
person obliged to make a provisional registration gives consent or a court ordering a provisional registration issues an order of provisional
disposition.
 Article 90 (Orders of Provisional Disposition Ordering Provisional
Registration)
(1) Where a district court having jurisdiction over the location of real estate deems that grounds for provisional registration are vindicated
    at the request of a person entitled to make a provisional registration, the district court may issue an order of disposition ordering
    provisional registration under Article 89.
(2) An immediate complaint may be lodged against a decision rejecting a request under paragraph
    (1).
 (3) Non-Contentious Case Procedure Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the immediate complaint under paragraph
     (2).
 Article 91 (Priority Order for Principal Registration According to Provisional
Registration)
Where a principal registration is made according to a provisional registration, the priority order for a principal registration shall accord with
the priority order for a provisional registration.
 Article 92 (Cancellation of Registration Made after Provisional Registration Ex Officio That Infringes upon Rights Preserved by
Provisional Registration)
 (1) Where a registrar makes a principal registration according to a provisional registration, he/she shall, ex officio, cancel registration,
     which is made after a provisional registration is made and infringes upon rights preserved by a provisional registration, as prescribed
     by the Supreme Court Regulations.
(2) If a registrar cancels a registration made after a provisional registration is made pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she shall, without delay,
    notify a registered titleholder of the cancelled right of the fact.
Article 93 (Cancellation of Provisional
Registration)
(1) Notwithstanding Article 23 (1), a titleholder of a provisional registration may unilaterally apply for the cancellation of a provisional
    registration.
(2) Notwithstanding Article 23 (1), a person obliged to make a provisional registration or a person with an interest in a provisional
    registration may unilaterally apply for the cancellation of a provisional registration with consent from a titleholder of a provisional
    registration.
Sub-Section 7 Registration concerning Provisional Disposition
Article 94 (Cancellation of Registration Made after Registration of Provisional Disposition Is
Made)
(1) Where an obligee of provisional disposition applies for the registration of transfer, cancellation or creation of a right with an obligor of
    a provisional registration as a person obliged to make a registration after provisional disposition prohibiting disposal is registered in
    order to preserve a right of claim for the transfer, cancellation or creation of a right pursuant to Article 305 (3) of the Civil Execution
    Act, he/she may unilaterally apply for the cancellation of a registration, which is made after the provisional registration is made and
    infringes upon the right of an obligee of provisional disposition, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
(2) Where a registrar cancels a registration made after a provisional registration is made according to an application under paragraph (1),
    he/she shall also cancel registration of the provisional disposition.
(3) Where a registrar cancels a registration made after a provisional registration is made according to an application under paragraph (1),
     he/she shall, without delay, notify a registered titleholder of the cancelled right of such fact.
 Article 95 (Registration of Creation of Right Other Than Ownership Appurtenant to Provisional
Disposition)
Where a registrar registers the creation of a right other than ownership in the name of a creditor of provisional disposition pursuant to
Article 94 (1), he/she shall record the purport that the registration is based on provisional disposition.
Sub-Section 8 Registration, etc. Entrusted by Public Offices
 Article 96 (Registration to Be Entrusted by Public Offices in Place of Registered
Titleholders)
Where a public office entrusts registration of seizure due to disposition on default, it may also entrust the registration of change or
correction of indication of real estate or a registered titleholder and the registration of transfer of a right due to general succession in place
of a registered titleholder, heir or general successor.
 Article 97 (Entrustment of Registration Due to Disposition of Public
Sale)
Where a public office receives a request from a person entitled to make a registration when it issues disposition of public sale, it shall,
without delay, entrust a registry with the following registration:
1. Registration of transfer of a right due to disposition of public
    sale;
2. Cancellation of registration of a right extinguished due to disposition of public
   sale;
3. Cancellation of registration of seizure concerning disposition on
   default.
Article 98 (Registration According to Entrustment by Public
Offices)
(1) Where the State or a local government is an entity entitled to make a registration, the State or the local government shall, without
    delay, entrust a registry with registration with consent from a person obliged to make a registration.
(2) Where the State or a local government is an entity liable to make a registration, the State or the local government shall, without delay,
    entrust a registry with registration at the request of a person entitled to make a registration.
Article 99 (Registration Due to
Expropriation)
(1) Notwithstanding Article 23 (1), registration of transfer of ownership due to expropriation may be unilaterally applied by a person
    entitled to make a registration.
(2) Where a person entitled to make a registration applies for registration under paragraph (1), he/she may apply for the registration of
    change or correction of indication of real estate or a registered titleholder and the registration of transfer of a right due to inheritance
    or general succession in place of the registered titleholder, heir or general successor.

(3) Where the State or a local government is an entity entitled to make a registration under paragraph (1), the State or the local
    government shall, without delay, entrust a registry with the registration under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(4) Where a registrar registers the transfer of ownership due to expropriation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (3), he/she shall cancel
    registration concerning ownership, a right other than ownership or restrictions on disposal, if any, in the registration records of the real
    estate: Provided, That this shall not apply to the registration of easement existing for such real estate or the registration of a right, the
    continuance of which is officially accepted by the ruling of a land tribunal.
(5) Paragraphs (1) through (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the registration of transfer of a right due to the expropriation of a right
     other than ownership of real estate.
                                                        CHAPTER V OBJECTIONS
 Article 100 (Raising Objections and Jurisdiction
Thereof)
Any person who has an objection against a decision or disposition made by a registrar may raise an objection to a competent district
court.
 Article 101 (Procedures for Raising
Objections)
Objections shall be raised by submitting an application for objection to a registry, as prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
 Article 102 (Prohibition against Raising Objections Based on New
Facts)
No objection shall be raised based on new facts or new methods of evidence.
 Article 103 (Measures to Be Taken by
Registrars)
(1) Where a registrar deems that a raised objection is reasonable, he/she shall issue appropriate
     disposition.
(2) Where a registrar deems that a raised objection is not reasonable, he/she shall return an application for objection to the competent
    district court with his/her opinion attached thereto within three days from the date such objection is raised.
(3) Where an objection is raised after a registration is completed, a registrar shall return an objection to the competent district court with
    his/her opinion attached thereto within three days and notify parties having interest in the registration of the fact that an objection is
    raised.
Article 104 (Non-Suspension of
Execution)
No objection shall have the effect of suspending execution.
Article 105 (Decisions on Objections and
Appeals)
(1) A competent district court shall decide on an objection with reasons attached thereto. In such cases, if it deems that such objection is
    reasonable, it shall order a registrar to issue appropriate disposition and notify an applicant for objection and parties with interest in
    the registration of such purport.
(2) An appeal may be lodged against a decision under paragraph (1) according to Non-Contentious Case Procedure
    Act.
Article 106 (Orders of Provisional Registration or Supplementary Registration before
Disposition)
A competent district court may order a registrar to make a provisional registration or supplementary registration with a purport that an
objection is raised before it makes a decision on the raised appeal.
Article 107 (Registration According to Orders of Competent
Courts)
Where a registrar makes a registration according to an order of the competent district court, he/she shall record the district court issuing
an order, date of order, purport that a registration is made according to an order and the date of registration.
Article 108 (Serving
Documents)
The Civil Procedure Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to serving documents and Non-Contentious Case Procedure Act shall apply mutatis
mutandis to expenses incurred in relation to appeals.
                                               CHAPTER VI SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Article 109 (Exchange, etc. of Computerized Information
Materials)
(1) The Minister of National Court Administration may be provided with computerized information materials relating to the handling of
    registration duties from State agencies or local governments.
(2) Any person who intends to utilize registration information materials recorded in the register shall obtain approval from the Minister of
    National Court Administration after examination by the head of the relevant central administrative agency: Provided, That where the
    head of a central administrative agency intends to use or utilize registration information materials, he/she shall hold consultations with
    the Minister of National Court Administration; his/her approval shall be deemed obtained when an agreement is reached in the
    consultation.
(3) Matters necessary for the use or utilization of registration information materials, use fee, etc. shall be prescribed by the Supreme
    Court Regulations.
Article 110 (Securing Safety of Information on Completion of
Registration)
(1) A registrar shall take measures necessary and appropriate for the prevention of leakage and loss of, or damage to information on
    completion of registration that he/she handles and the safe management of information on completion of registration.
(2) Registrars and persons who are or have engaged in the duties of registering real estate at registries shall not divulge confidential
    information concerning the preparation and management of information on completion of a registration that they have become aware
    of in the course of performing their duties.
(3) No person shall obtain information on completion of a registration for a purpose of providing it for application for a registration or
    entrustment of a registration in order to make an improper registration, or provide information on completion of a registration while
    being aware of such circumstances.
Article 111 (Penalty
Provisions)
Any of the following persons shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than two years or by a fine not exceeding ten million won:
1. A person who divulges information concerning the preparation or management of information on completion of a registration, in
   violation of Article 110 (2);
2. A person who obtains information on completion of a registration in violation of Article 110 (3) or who provides information on
   completion of a registration while being aware of such circumstances;
 3. A person who keeps information on completion of a registration obtained fraudulently for a purpose under subparagraph
    2.
 Article 112 Deleted. <by Act No. 14901, Oct. 13,
2017>
 Article 113 (Delegation to the Supreme Court
Regulations)
Matters necessary for the enforcement of this Act shall be prescribed by the Supreme Court Regulations.
ADDENDA
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation:Provided, That the amended provisions of subparagraph 7 of
Article 3, Article 76 (2), and Article 4 (17) of Addenda shall enter into force on June 11, 2012.
Article 2 (Transitional Measures concerning Certificates of Completion of Registration)
If a person, who has been issued a certificate of completion of a registration pursuant to the former Article 67 (1) or has been notified of
completion of a registration pursuant to the former Article 68 (1) after having the acquisition of a right registered, applies for registration
pursuant to the amended provisions of Article 24 (1) 1, he/she may attach a certificate of completion of a registration under the former
Article 67 (1) or a notice of completion of a registration under the former Article 68 (1) to the application instead of providing information on
completion of a registration under the amended provisions of Article 50 (2).
Article 3 (Transitional Measures concerning Registration of Advance Notices)
The former provisions shall apply to procedures for cancelling registration of an advance notice already made as at the time this Act
enters into force.
Article 4 Omitted.
Article 5 (Relationship with Other Statutes)
 (1) Where a certified copy or abstract of register is cited by other Acts and subordinate statutes as at the time this Act enters into force, a
     certificate of registered matters shall be deemed cited; where a certificate of completion of a registration is cited, a notice of
     completion of a registration or a notice of information on completion of a registration shall be deemed cited in addition to a certificate
     of completion of a registration.
(2) Where provisions of the former Registration of Real Estate Act have been cited by other Acts or subordinate statutes as at the time
    this Act enters into force, relevant provisions of this Act shall be deemed cited in place of the former provisions if provisions
    corresponding thereto exist herein.
ADDENDA <Act No. 10924, Jul. 25, 2011>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 4 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
(1) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its
    promulgation.
(2) Omitted.
Articles 2 through 7 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 11826, May 28, 2013>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Applicability)
This Act shall begin to apply to a registration case received after this Act enters into force.
Article 3 (Transitional Measures)
(1) Registration of a trust completed pursuant to the former provisions as at the time this Act enters into force shall be deemed completed
    pursuant to this Act.
(2) Registers of trusts drawn up pursuant to the former provisions as at the time this Act enters into force shall be used as they are after
    this Act enters into force.
ADDENDA <Act No. 12420, Mar. 18, 2014>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 4 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 12421, Mar. 18, 2014>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 and 3 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 12738, Jun. 3, 2014>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 and 3 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 13426, Jul. 24, 2015>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 through 39 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 13435, Jul. 24, 2015>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. (Proviso Omitted.)
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 13797, Jan. 19, 2016>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 11 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 13953, Feb. 3, 2016>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 8 Omitted.
ADDENDA <Act No. 14901, Oct. 13, 2017>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 (Transitional Measures concerning Administrative Fines)
The application of administrative fines imposed on acts committed before this Act enters into force, shall be governed by the previous
provisions.

PC Version Go Top

 2019 KLRI
