Contents (1993 - 23)
Land Acquisition Act 1993
Long Title
Part 1 - Preliminary
1. Short title
2. Commencement
3. Interpretation
4. Application of Act to acquisition of land by or on behalf of the Crown
5. Application of Act to acquisition of land by an acquiring authority other than the Crown
5A. Certain land may not be acquired
6. Special Arbitrators
7. Minister to act for the Crown in relation to acquisition of land by the Crown
Part 1A - Acquisition of Land by Crown for Private Sector Infrastructure Project
7A. Interpretation: Part 1A
7AB. Application of Part 1A
7B. Order authorising acquisition of land for purposes of infrastructure to be constructed or operated by private
sector
7C. Conditions precedent to Ministerial recommendation
7D. Content of order
7E. Eﬀect of order
7F. Sale of land acquired pursuant to order
7G. Use and development of land acquired pursuant to order
7H. Injurious aﬀection
7I. Amendment of order
7J. Revocation of order
Part 2 - Acquisition of Land
Division 1 - Methods of acquisition
8. Methods of acquisition
Division 2 - Purchase by agreement
9. Power to purchase by agreement
10. Purchase of surplus land
Division 3 - Taking by compulsory process
11. Notice to treat
12. Notice of withdrawal
13. Registration of notice to treat and notice of withdrawal
14. Lapse of notice to treat
15. Taking of land where no agreement for purchase
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
1 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Consent to taking of land
17. Payment into trust fund by promoter
18. Notice of acquisition
19. Eﬀect of notice of acquisition
20. Registration of notices of acquisition
21. Notice to former owner after acquisition
22. Amendment or revocation of notice of acquisition
23. Reconveyances in relation to notices of acquisition
Part 3 - Compensation Entitlement
Division 1 - Right to compensation
24. Right to compensation
25. Mortgagee may waive right to compensation
Division 2 - Amount of compensation generally
26. Application of Division 2
27. Basis of compensation
28. No compensation for disturbance in certain cases
29. Provisions applicable where land is zoned or reserved for public purpose
30. Compensation for principal residence
31. Compensation where no general market for interest taken
32. Compensation for tenant at will
33. Matters to be disregarded in determining compensation
Division 3 - Amount of compensation for mortgagee
34. Amount of compensation for mortgagee
Division 4 - Day on which compensation to be determined
35. Day on which compensation to be determined
Part 4 - Claims for, and Determination of, Compensation
Division 1 - Claims for compensation
36. Claims for compensation
37. Time for making claim for compensation
38. Eﬀect of failure to make claim for compensation
39. Procedure on receipt of claim for compensation in respect of entitlement to claim
40. Procedure on receipt of claim for compensation in respect of amount claimed
Division 2 - Disputed claims for compensation
41. Disputed claim for compensation
42. Methods of determining disputed claims
43. Cessation of arbitration if more claimants discovered
44. Eﬀect of failure to determine or proceed to determine disputed claim
Part 5 - Payment of Compensation
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
2 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
45. Payment of compensation to claimant
46. Payment of compensation by promoter, &c.
47. Interest on compensation
48. Acquiring authority to pay certain costs
49. Payments to be good discharge
50. Advance payment of compensation where entitlement is established
51. Power of acquiring authorities to deduct certain charges from purchase or compensation money
52. Deposit of compensation in trust account
53. Payment into Court
Part 6 - Powers in Relation to Land
54. Powers of entry and examination
54A. Powers of entry to carry out works in relation to major infrastructure projects
55. Immediate entry
56. Power to occupy adjacent land
57. Rent for occupation
58. Fencing of adjoining land
Part 7 - Proceedings Before the Court or Arbitrator
Division 1 - Procedure and powers of the Court, arbitrator and Special Arbitrator
59. Procedure and powers of the Court
60. Costs
61. Procedure relating to review of costs
Division 2 - Appeals
62. Appeals
Part 8 - Persons Under Disability and Limited Owners
63. Power of persons under disability to sell
64. Extent of power of persons under disability to sell
65. Application of purchase-money or compensation where parties only entitled to sell because of this Part
Part 9 - Miscellaneous
66. Public Trustee to represent unascertained owner
67. Apportionment of charges and encumbrances where only part of land taken
68. Apportionment of rent where part of leased land taken
69. Oﬀences
70. Overlooked estates
71. Writs to enforce entry and possession of land
72. Removal of goods, &c., from acquired land
73. Disposal of land taken
74. Resumption procedure
75. Land acquired by Crown becomes Crown land reserve
76. Purchase of personal property
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
3 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
77. Limitation on proceedings
78. Extension of time or period
79. Delegation of powers by Minister, Secretary and acquiring authorities other than the Crown
80. Signing of notices and other documents
81. Service of notices and other documents
82. Rules of Court
83. Regulations
84. Repeals
85. Repealed
86. Administration of Act
Schedule 1 - Acts Repealed
Schedule 2 - Repealed
Results: Document Types="Acts, Amending Acts, SRs, Amending SRs", Search In="Title", All Words="acquisition", Point In
Time="28/04/2025" match 0 of 124 provisions
Land Acquisition Act 1993
Version current from 1 January 2022 to date (accessed 28 April 2025 at 21:16)
Land Acquisition Act 1993
An Act to make provision for the acquisition of land by the Crown, public and local authorities and
promoters, to authorize the acquisition of land for undertakings of a public nature, to provide for matters
incidental to, and consequential on, that acquisition, and to repeal the Lands Clauses Act 1857, the Lands
Resumption Act 1957 and the Public Authorities' Land Acquisition Act 1949
[Royal Assent 3 June 1993]
Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Council and House of Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
4 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 1 - Preliminary
1.   Short title
This Act may be cited as the Land Acquisition Act 1993 .
2.   Commencement
This Act commences on a day to be proclaimed.
3.   Interpretation
(1)  In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears –
acquire means purchase or take;
acquiring authority or authority means the Crown, a public authority, a local authority or a
promoter;
arbitrator means a Special Arbitrator or an arbitral tribunal under the Commercial Arbitration
Act 2011 , as the case requires;
authorized purpose, in relation to the acquisition of land, means a purpose for which the land
may be acquired by an acquiring authority;
authorized securities means securities in which trustees are authorized to invest trust funds by
section 5 of the Trustee Act 1898 ;
claimant means a person who claims an entitlement to compensation under this Act;
clerk, in relation to an acquiring authority, means –
(a) a general manager within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993 ;
(b)
(c) the secretary or similar officer of a public authority; or
(d) a promoter; or
(e) the secretary or similar officer of a promoter;
Commission has the same meaning as in the Tasmanian Planning Commission Act 1997 ;
convey includes surrender, release, transfer, assign and otherwise assure;
Court means the Supreme Court of Tasmania;
the Crown includes the Governor and a Minister of the Crown when they are authorized as
provided in section 4 ;
encumbrance means a charge or encumbrance on land, other than a mortgage;
estate, in relation to land, includes any estate, interest, easement, right, title, claim, demand,
charge, lien or encumbrance in, over, to or in respect of that land;
former owner, in relation to land that has been acquired, means a person who –
(a) was an owner of that land when the first notice to treat was served; or
(b) became an owner of that land subsequent to that service but before the notice of
acquisition in respect of that land was gazetted;
Government Department means a Government department established under the State Service
Act 2000 or by any other enactment as a Government department within the meaning of that Act;
judge means a judge of the Supreme Court;
land includes messuages, tenements, hereditaments, buildings attached to the land and any estate
in the land;
lease includes an agreement for a lease;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
5 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
legal practitioner means an Australian legal practitioner;
local authority means the council exercising jurisdiction in the locality to which the context
relates;
major infrastructure project has the same meaning as in the Major Infrastructure Development
Approvals Act 1999 ;
notice of acquisition means a notice of acquisition gazetted under section 18 or 70 ;
notice of withdrawal means a notice of withdrawal under section 12 ;
notice to treat means a notice to treat under section 11 ;
owner, in relation to land, means a person who, whether jointly or severally, is seised or
possessed of, or entitled to, an estate in the land at any time on and from the day on which a
notice to treat in respect of the land is first served on a person until (but not including) the day on
which a notice of acquisition in respect of the land is gazetted, and includes a person who is
enabled under this Act, any other Act or any instrument to sell or convey the land to an acquiring
authority;
prescribed rate, in relation to interest on compensation payable by an acquiring authority, means
the rate that, on any day, is advised by the Commonwealth as being the weighted average issue
yield for the longest term stock in the most recent Treasury bond tender;
proclaimed day means the day fixed by proclamation under section 2 ;
promoter means a person, other than a public or local authority, empowered by a special Act to
execute the works or undertaking authorized by that Act;
public authority means a body or authority, whether incorporated or not, established or
constituted by or under an Act or under the Royal Prerogative, being a body or authority which,
or of which the governing authority, wholly or partly comprises persons appointed by the
Governor, a Minister of the Crown or another public authority, but does not include a
Government Department or a local authority;
public purpose means a purpose related to the administration of the Government of this State;
purchase means purchase by agreement under this Act;
reconvey means convey land taken to its former owner under section 23 (1) ;
regulations means regulations made and in force under this Act;
Rules of Court means the Rules of Court made under the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act
1932 and the Civil Process Act 1985 ;
Secretary means the Secretary of the Department;
special Act means an Act authorizing the acquisition of land for the purpose of an acquiring
authority other than the Crown;
Special Arbitrator means a Special Arbitrator appointed under section 6 ;
subject land means land acquired or being acquired under this Act;
take, in relation to land, means take by compulsory process under this Act.
(2)  In this Act, a reference to the "acquiring authority" or "authority" is a reference to the acquiring
authority concerned with or affected by the matter to which the context relates.
(3)  In this Act, a reference to the relevant Supreme Court Rules is a reference to the Supreme Court
Rules 2000 made under the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932 , as those rules are amended from
time to time, and to any rules made in substitution for those rules.
4.   Application of Act to acquisition of land by or on behalf of the Crown
(1)  Land is to be acquired as provided by this Act where the Crown, the Governor or a Minister of the
Crown is authorized –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
6 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) by an Act to undertake, construct or provide a public work for which the land is required; or
(b) by this Act or any other Act to purchase, acquire or take the land for any purpose.
(2)  Except to the extent that the provisions of this Act are expressly varied or made inapplicable by an
Act referred to in subsection (1) , other than this Act, those provisions –
(a) apply to the work or purpose authorized by that Act as far as they are applicable to that work
or purpose; and
(b) form part of that Act, together with any other Act that is to be incorporated with that Act; and
(c) are to be read as one Act with that Act and any other Act so incorporated.
(3)  The Governor may, by order, authorize a Minister of the Crown to acquire land for a public purpose
or public work if there is no statutory authorization to acquire the land as mentioned in subsection (1) .
(4)  An authorization under subsection (3) is an authorization to the Minister under this Act for the
purposes of subsection (1) .
(5)  An order made under subsection (3) is not a statutory rule within the meaning of the Rules
Publication Act 1953 and section 38A (2) (a) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1931 does not apply in
relation to it.
(6)  Except as provided in section 74 , this Act does not affect the right of the Crown to resume land by
virtue of a right reserved in the grant of the land, but land that may be so resumed may be acquired under
this Act.
5.   Application of Act to acquisition of land by an acquiring authority other than the Crown
(1)  Where an acquiring authority (other than the Crown) is authorized by a special Act to acquire any
land required for the purposes of the authority, that land –
(a) if it is Crown land, is to be purchased as provided by the Crown Lands Act 1976 ; or
(b) if it is not Crown land, is to be acquired as provided by this Act.
(2)  Except to the extent that the provisions of this Act are expressly varied or made inapplicable by a
special Act, those provisions –
(a) apply to the purpose authorized by that special Act as far as they are applicable to that
purpose; and
(b) form part of the special Act, together with any other Act that is to be incorporated with that
special Act; and
(c) are to be read as one Act with the special Act and any other Act so incorporated.
5A.   Certain land may not be acquired
Aboriginal land, within the meaning of the Aboriginal Lands Act 1995 , may not be acquired under this
Act.
6.   Special Arbitrators
(1)  The Governor may appoint a person as a Special Arbitrator to act as an arbitrator under this Act.
(2)  A person appointed under subsection (1) is to be a person who, in the opinion of the Governor, has
sufficient experience in the assessment of compensation in relation to the acquisition of land to act as an
arbitrator.
(3)  Subject to this section, a Special Arbitrator holds and vacates office subject to such terms and
conditions as are specified in the instrument of appointment.
(4)  A Special Arbitrator may resign office by notice in writing addressed to the Minister.
(5)  A Special Arbitrator holds office for such term, not exceeding 4 years, as may be specified in the
instrument of appointment.
(6)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
7 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(7)  A Special Arbitrator is to be paid such remuneration and allowances as the Governor determines.
7.   Minister to act for the Crown in relation to acquisition of land by the Crown
Where this Act authorizes or requires –
(a) an agreement to be entered into; or
(b) a notice or other document to be served or given; or
(c) any other act or thing to be done, including the exercise of a discretion –
for the purposes of, or arising out of, the acquisition of land by the Crown, the Minister is, except as
otherwise provided by this Act, to enter into the agreement, serve or give the notice or other document,
or do that other act or thing on behalf of the Crown.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
8 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 1A - Acquisition of Land by Crown for Private Sector
Infrastructure Project
7A.   Interpretation: Part 1A
For the purposes of this Part –
development has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 ;
infrastructure means any structure, facility or work arising in connection with the provision to
the public or a section of the public of services relating to –
(a) water;
(b) energy;
(c) communications;
(d) transport;
(e) education;
(f) health;
(g) emergency response;
(h) sewerage;
(i) any other service which may be prescribed;
permit has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 ;
planning authority has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 ;
proponent means the person who proposes to construct or operate infrastructure on land acquired
pursuant to an order made under this Part, and does not include the Crown;
proposed infrastructure, in relation to an order made under section 7B(2) , means the
infrastructure which it is proposed to develop on land to which the order relates;
Register has the same meaning as in the Land Titles Act 1980 ;
Registry of Deeds has the same meaning as in the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 ;
sale, in relation to land, means the disposal of land by sale, lease, exchange for proper
consideration or any other means;
special planning order has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act
1993 ;
use has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 .
7AB.   Application of Part 1A
This Part does not apply to the acquisition of land for a major infrastructure project.
7B.   Order authorising acquisition of land for purposes of infrastructure to be constructed or operated
by private sector
(1)  The Minister may recommend to the Governor the making of an order authorising the Minister to
acquire land for the purposes of infrastructure to be constructed or operated by a person other than the
Crown.
(2)  The Governor may make an order in accordance with a recommendation made under subsection (1) .
(3)  An order under subsection (2) is to be published in the Gazette.
(4)  The Minister must cause an order under subsection (2) to be laid before each House of Parliament
within the first 10 sitting days of the House after it is so published.
(5)  An order under subsection (2) is of no effect until it has been approved by both Houses of
Parliament.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
9 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6)  For the purposes of subsection (5) , a House of Parliament is taken to have approved an order under
subsection (2) if a copy of it has been laid on the table of that House and –
(a) it is approved by that House; or
(b) at the expiration of 15 sitting days after it was laid on the table of that House, no notice has
been given of a motion to disallow it or, if such notice has been given, the notice has been
withdrawn or negatived; or
(c) if any notice of a motion to disallow it is given during that period of 15 sitting days, the notice
is, after the expiration of that period, withdrawn or negatived.
(7)  As soon as practicable after an order under subsection (2) has taken effect, the Minister must give
written notice of the taking effect of the order to –
(a) each planning authority with jurisdiction over the land to which the order relates; and
(b) each planning authority on which obligations are imposed by the order; and
(c) each instrumentality or agency of the Crown on which obligations are imposed by the order;
and
(d) each owner of land which it is proposed to acquire pursuant to the order.
7C.   Conditions precedent to Ministerial recommendation
(1)  The Minister may not make a recommendation under section 7B(1) that an order be made which
authorises the acquisition of land for the purposes of infrastructure to be constructed or operated by a
person other than the Crown unless –
(a) the Minister has received a report from the proponent which provides a comprehensive
description of the proposed infrastructure and contains such information in relation to the
proposed infrastructure as may be prescribed; and
(b) that report –
(i) is accompanied by the written consent of the owner of the land to the making of the
proposed order; or
(ii) states that it has not been possible to obtain such consent and explains why this has
not been possible; and
(c) the Minister has given the owner of the land at least 14 days' notice of the Minister's intention
to make the recommendation; and
(d) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the public interest for the proposed order to be made.
(2)  In determining whether it is in the public interest for the proposed order to be made, the Minister
must have regard to such matters as may be prescribed.
7D.   Content of order
(1)  An order made by the Governor under section 7B(2) is to –
(a) identify the proponent; and
(b) authorise the Minister to acquire specified land under this Act for the purposes of proposed
infrastructure; and
(c) describe the proposed infrastructure, specifying –
(i) the nature of each use or development which is to occur in connection with the
proposed infrastructure on the land which is to be acquired pursuant to the order; and
(ii) the parcel of land upon which each such use or development is to occur.
(2)  An order made by the Governor under section 7B(2) may –
(a) declare that compliance with section 52(1) of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993
is not required; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
10 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) require an instrumentality or agency of the Crown or planning authority which is specified in
the order to provide the proponent or any other person with such guidelines or other information
as the order may specify by such date as the order may specify; and
(c) require the proponent identified in the order to lodge with the Crown a financial assurance in
the form of a bond (supported by a guarantee or other security) or specified pecuniary sum, in an
amount specified in the order and by a specified date, to be forfeited on failure to comply with
terms or conditions specified in the order; and
(d) require the proponent identified in the order to pay to the Crown an amount specified in the
order by a specified date, to cover costs and expenses which may be incurred by the Crown or
any person in connection with the acquisition of land pursuant to the order; and
(e) require compliance by the proponent or any other person with terms or conditions set out in
the order; and
(f) authorise the sale by the Crown to the proponent of any specified land the acquisition of
which is authorised by the order.
7E.   Effect of order
(1)  An authorisation given to the Minister by an order under section 7B(2) is an authorisation for the
purposes of section 4(1) .
(2)  Land may not be acquired pursuant to an order under section 7B(2) until a permit in connection with
the proposed infrastructure has been granted in respect of that land.
(3)  If an order under section 7B(2) declares that compliance with section 52(1) of the Land Use
Planning and Approvals Act 1993 is not required –
(a) section 52(1) of that Act and any provisions of the relevant planning scheme or special
planning order which require the giving of notice to the owner of land in respect of which a
permit is sought do not apply; and
(b) notice of the making of an application for a permit in connection with the development of the
proposed infrastructure on the land to which the order relates is, at least 14 days before the
making of the application, to be served by the applicant on the owner of the land in respect of
which the permit is required.
(4)  A notice for the purpose of subsection (3)(b) is to contain such information as may be prescribed.
(5)  If an order under section 7B(2) declares that compliance with section 52(1) of the Land Use
Planning and Approvals Act 1993 is not required, a planning authority which receives an application for
a permit in connection with the proposed infrastructure must not accept that application unless it is
satisfied that the requirements of subsections (3) and (4) have been met.
(5A)  If an order under section 7B(2) declares that compliance with section 52(1) of the Land Use
Planning and Approvals Act 1993 is not required, a request by the proponent for the amendment of a
permit granted in connection with the proposed infrastructure may be made under section 56(1) of the
Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 without the consent of the owner of the land to which the
permit relates.
(6)  If an order under section 7B(2) requires any instrumentality or agency of the Crown or planning
authority which is specified in the order to provide the proponent or another person by a specified date
with such guidelines or other information as the order may specify, the instrumentality, agency or
authority to which the requirement is directed must comply with the requirement.
(7)  If an order under section 7B(2) requires the proponent identified in the order to pay to the Crown a
financial assurance in the form of a bond (supported by a guarantee or other security) or specified
pecuniary sum to be forfeited on failure to comply with terms or conditions specified in the order, the
bond or sum is forfeited to the Crown on –
(a) failure to comply with any of those terms or conditions; or
(b) failure to apply to a planning authority for a permit for each use or development specified in
the order within a period of 12 months from the date of the order or such further period, expiring
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
11 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
not more than 24 months from the date of the order, as the Minister may allow; or
(c) the lapse under section 53(5) of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 of any permit
which is granted for a use or development specified in the order.
(8)  If an order under section 7B(2) requires the proponent identified in the order to pay to the Crown an
amount specified in the order by a specified date to cover costs and expenses which may be incurred by
the Crown or any person in connection with the acquisition of land pursuant to the order, the amount is a
debt due to the Crown from the proponent identified in the order and may be recovered by the Crown
from the proponent in any court of competent jurisdiction.
7F.   Sale of land acquired pursuant to order
(1)  Land acquired by the Crown pursuant to an order under section 7B(2) may not be sold unless –
(a) the sale of that land has been authorised under section 7D(2)(f) or notice of the proposed sale
has been published and approved by each House of Parliament in accordance with section 64 of
the Crown Lands Act 1976 ; and
(b) a permit has been granted in connection with the development of the proposed infrastructure
in respect of the land and –
(i) the period specified under section 61 of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act
1993 for appealing the decision of the planning authority to grant the permit has expired
and no appeal has been lodged; or
(ii) where such an appeal has been lodged, the appeal has been determined.
(2)  Section 73(3)(a) does not apply to the sale of land acquired pursuant to an order made under
section 7B(2) provided that development in connection with the proposed infrastructure occurs on the
land.
7G.   Use and development of land acquired pursuant to order
(1)  Unless written approval is given by the Minister, land which is acquired pursuant to an order under
section 7B(2) may only be used or developed in connection with the proposed infrastructure.
(2)  Unless written approval is given by the Minister, a planning authority may not grant a permit for a
use or development on land which is acquired pursuant to an order under section 7B(2) unless that use or
development is in connection with the proposed infrastructure.
(3)  Approval given by the Minister for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) is to be laid before each
House of Parliament within the first 10 sitting days of the House after the approval is given.
(4)  Subsections (1) and (2) apply whether or not –
(a) the Crown is the owner of the land; or
(b) the order under section 7B(2) has been revoked.
(5)  Subsections (1) and (2) cease to apply to land 10 years after the making of the order under
section 7B(2) which authorised the acquisition of the land.
(6)  If the Crown sells land acquired pursuant to section 7B(2) and the use or development of the land is
restricted under this section, the Crown must –
(a) if the land is under the Land Titles Act 1980 , give notice of the restriction to the Recorder of
Titles; and
(b) if the land is not under the Land Titles Act 1980 , lodge a notice of the restriction in the
Registry of Deeds.
(7)  A notice for the purposes of subsection (6) is to state when the restriction is to cease.
(8)  The Recorder of Titles must register a notice under subsection (6)(a) by making an appropriate entry
in the Register.
7H.   Injurious affection
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
12 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  If land to which an order under section 7B(2) relates is injuriously affected by the making of the
order, the owner of the land or its purchaser, in the case of land being purchased under a Crown lands
contract, is entitled to compensation from the proponent identified in the order for the injurious affection
to that land and to other land belonging to that person.
(2)  A claim by an owner of land for compensation under subsection (1) is to be made within a period of
12 months of the grant of the permit.
(3)  If not agreed on, a claim for compensation under subsection (1) is to be determined in the same
manner as a disputed claim for compensation under this Act as if the proponent identified in the order
under section 7B(2) were an acquiring authority within the meaning of this Act.
(4)  Compensation is not payable under this section in respect of injurious affection for which
compensation is otherwise payable under this Act.
7I.   Amendment of order
(1)  The Minister may recommend to the Governor the making of an order which amends an order made
under section 7B(2) .
(2)  Before making a recommendation to the Governor under subsection (1) , the Minister must
determine whether the proposed amending order will alter the order made by the Governor under
section 7B(2) to such an extent or to such effect that the amending order should be submitted to
Parliament for its approval.
(3)  The Governor may make an order in accordance with a recommendation made under subsection (1) .
(4)  An order under subsection (3) is to be published in the Gazette.
(5)  An order under subsection (3) is to state that the Minister has determined –
(a) that the order will not alter the order made by the Governor under section 7B(2) to such an
extent or to such effect that the amending order should be submitted to Parliament for its
approval; or
(b) that the order will alter the order made by the Governor under section 7B(2) to such an extent
or to such effect that the amending order should be submitted to Parliament for its approval.
(6)  The Minister must cause an order under subsection (3) to be laid before each House of Parliament
within the first 10 sitting days of the House after it is published in the Gazette.
(7)  An order which includes a statement under subsection (5)(b) is of no effect until it has been
approved by both Houses of Parliament.
(8)  For the purpose of subsection (7) , a House of Parliament is taken to have approved an order under
subsection (3) if a copy of it has been laid on the table of that House and –
(a) it is approved by that House; or
(b) at the expiration of 15 sitting days after it was laid on the table of that House, no notice has
been given of a motion to disallow it or, if such notice has been given, the notice has been
withdrawn or negatived; or
(c) if any notice of a motion to disallow it is given during that period of 15 sitting days, the notice
is, after the expiration of that period, withdrawn or negatived.
7J.   Revocation of order
(1)  The Minister may recommend to the Governor the making of an order which revokes an order made
under section 7B(2) on the ground that –
(a) there has been a breach or failure to comply with a requirement, term or condition of the
order; or
(b) there has been a failure to apply to a planning authority for a permit for each use or
development specified in the order within a period of 12 months from the date of the order or
such further period as the Minister may have allowed in accordance with section 7E(7)(b) ; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
13 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) a permit granted for a use or development specified in the order has lapsed pursuant to section
53(5) of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 .
(2)  The Governor may make an order in accordance with a recommendation made under subsection (1) .
(3)  An order under subsection (2) is to be published in the Gazette.
(4)  The Minister must cause an order under subsection (2) to be laid before each House of Parliament
within the first 10 sitting days of the House after it is so published.
(5)  No action may be brought against the Crown or any servant or agent of the Crown for loss sustained
by reason of the making of an order under subsection (2) .
(6)  If an order is made under subsection (2)  –
(a) any permit granted since the making of the order under section 7B(2) for a use or
development specified in that order ceases to have effect; and
(b) section 73(3)(a) applies to any land acquired by the Crown pursuant to the order under
section 7B(2) .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
14 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 2 - Acquisition of Land
Division 1 - Methods of acquisition
8.   Methods of acquisition
Land may be acquired under this Act –
(a) by agreement in accordance with Division 2 ; or
(b) by compulsory process in accordance with Division 3 .
Division 2 - Purchase by agreement
9.   Power to purchase by agreement
(1)  An acquiring authority may agree with an owner of land for the purchase of that land.
(2)  An owner of land being purchased by an acquiring authority under this section may convey the land
without being required to obtain the approval or permission of any local authority or planning authority.
(3)  The consideration for a purchase under this section is to be the payment of money or any other
consideration agreed on between the owner of the land and the acquiring authority.
10.   Purchase of surplus land
An acquiring authority may enter into an agreement under section 9 for the purchase of land
notwithstanding that the land that is the subject of the agreement contains an area in excess of that
required for the authorized purpose for which the land is being purchased.
Division 3 - Taking by compulsory process
11.   Notice to treat
(1)  An acquiring authority must –
(a) take all reasonable steps to ascertain all owners of any land the authority proposes to take and
the addresses of those owners; and
(b) cause a notice to treat to be served on every owner so ascertained whose address has also
been ascertained.
(2)  A notice to treat is to –
(a) be in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b) identify the land to be taken; and
(c) contain particulars of the authorized purpose for which that land is being taken; and
(d) contain such other particulars as may be prescribed; and
(e) specify that the acquiring authority is willing to negotiate for the purchase of the land but, if
agreement for the purchase of the land is not reached within 30 days after the service of the
notice, the authority may take the land compulsorily; and
(f) specify that the owner of the land is entitled to compensation determined in accordance with
this Act if the land is taken compulsorily; and
(g) specify that the owner is required by this Act to supply the authority with particulars of –
(i) the owner's estate in the land; and
(ii) all other estates in the land of which the owner has notice; and
(h) specify that the owner is prohibited by this Act from carrying out works on, or doing any
other act or thing in, or in relation to, the land that will materially vary the nature or value of the
land unless the authority has consented to those works or that act or thing.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
15 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3)  Land is to be identified in a notice to treat by a plan of survey or by any other means that will enable
the owner receiving the notice to know the approximate location and extent of the land.
(4)  An owner who has been served with a notice to treat –
(a) must supply the acquiring authority with particulars of the owner's estate in the subject land;
and
(b) must supply the authority with particulars of all other estates in the subject land of which the
owner has notice; and
(c) must not, without the consent of the authority, carry out works on, or do any other act or thing
in, or in relation to, the subject land that will materially vary its nature or value.
(5)  The relationship between an owner on whom a notice to treat has been served and the acquiring
authority is, except where otherwise provided in this Act, the same as it would have been if, when the
notice was served, the owner had agreed to sell to the authority the estate to which the notice related for
an amount to be determined under Part 4 .
(6)  An acquiring authority or an owner on whom a notice to treat has been served does not have any
right to enforce performance of the notional contract of sale created by subsection (5) otherwise than as
provided by this Act.
(7)  Where a notice to treat is served on an owner as provided in this section, any other owner of the land
to which the notice relates who is unknown, or whose address is unknown, to the acquiring authority is
taken to have been served with a notice to treat in respect of that land.
12.   Notice of withdrawal
(1)  An acquiring authority may withdraw a notice to treat by serving a notice of withdrawal if –
(a) a notice of acquisition in respect of the land, or a part of the land, identified in the notice to
treat has not been gazetted; and
(b) an agreement under section 9 or 16 for the acquisition of the land, or a part of the land, has
not been made.
(2)  A notice of withdrawal is to be –
(a) in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b) served on every owner of the land, or a part of the land, to which the notice relates who is,
and whose address is, known to the acquiring authority immediately before the day on which the
authority withdraws the notice to treat.
(3)  Withdrawal of a notice to treat does not prevent the service of another notice to treat in respect of the
same land or a part of the land.
(4)  Where a notice of withdrawal is served on an owner as provided in this section, any other owner of
the land, or a part of the land, to which the notice relates who is unknown, or whose address is unknown,
to the acquiring authority is taken to have been served with a notice of withdrawal in respect of that land
or part of the land, as the case may be.
13.   Registration of notice to treat and notice of withdrawal
(1)  If all or any of the land, or a part of the land, to which a notice to treat, or notice of withdrawal,
relates is subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 , the acquiring authority must lodge with the Recorder of
Titles in accordance with section 129 of that Act the documents required by that section.
(2)  If all or any of the land, or a part of the land, to which a notice to treat or a notice of withdrawal
relates is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 , the acquiring authority must register the notice or the
part of the notice relating to the part of the land that is not subject to that Act–
(a) as soon as practicable after the notice, or the first such notice, is served; and
(b) as provided by Division III of Part II of the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 .
(3)  A notice required to be registered under subsection (2) is an instrument for the purposes of the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
16 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Registration of Deeds Act 1935 .
14.   Lapse of notice to treat
A notice to treat lapses if –
(a) the owner on whom the notice was served does not make an agreement under section 9 (1) ;
and
(b) the acquiring authority does not cause a notice of acquisition in respect of the land, or a part
of the land, referred to in that notice to treat to be published in accordance with section 18 (2) .
15.   Taking of land where no agreement for purchase
An acquiring authority may, subject to this Act, take an estate in subject land where the owner of that
estate does not agree to sell it to the authority within 30 days after being served with a notice to treat.
16.   Consent to taking of land
(1)  The following persons may agree to the taking of land by notice of acquisition:
(a) if the land is subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 , a person who has power to sell and convey
the fee simple estate in that land;
(b) if the land is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 –
(i) in the case of land that is not subject to a mortgage, a person who has power to sell and
convey the fee simple estate in that land; or
(ii) in the case of land that is subject to a mortgage and in the possession of the
mortgagor, a person who would but for that mortgage have power to sell and convey the
fee simple estate in that land; or
(iii) in the case of land that is subject to a mortgage and in the possession of the
mortgagee, the person who has power to sell and convey the fee simple estate in that land.
(2)  Where an agreement is made under subsection (1) , an acquiring authority may take the land, or a
part of the land, by causing a notice of acquisition to be published in the Gazette notwithstanding that a
notice to treat has not been served under section 11 or 66 .
(3)  An agreement made under subsection (1) binds all owners of the subject land.
(4)  The provisions of a contract which –
(a) relates to the acquisition of subject land; and
(b) contains an agreement made under subsection (1) –
are valid and effective notwithstanding section 19 and Part 3 .
17.   Payment into trust fund by promoter
If a notice to treat has been served on an owner of subject land by an acquiring authority that is a
promoter and that authority is proposing to take that land, or a part of the land, the acquiring authority
must, before gazetting a notice of acquisition in respect of that land or part, as the case may be –
(a) obtain from the Valuer-General an estimate of the amount of compensation that is likely to be
payable in respect of that land or part; and
(b) deposit that amount with the Treasurer to be kept in an account in the Public Account.
18.   Notice of acquisition
(1)  An acquiring authority may cause a notice of acquisition to be published in the Gazette if –
(a) a notice to treat in relation to the land, or the part of the land to be acquired, has been served
on an owner of subject land; and
(b) the documents referred to in section 13 (1) have been lodged with the Recorder of Titles
under that section or the notice to treat, or the relevant part of that notice, has been registered
under section 13 (2) ; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
17 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) the notice to treat has not been withdrawn under section 12 ; and
(d) no agreement has been made in respect of that land, or a part of the land, under section 9 .
(1A)  If a notice to treat has been served on an owner of subject land, a notice of acquisition may relate
to all of the land, or a part of the land, that is within the boundaries of the subject land shown in the
notice to treat.
(2)  Except as provided in subsection (2A) , a notice of acquisition is to be gazetted after the expiration
of 30 days and before the expiration of 6 months–
(a) after the day on which the notice to treat was served; or
(b) where more than one notice to treat was served, after the day on which the first notice to treat
was served.
(2A)  If a notice of acquisition relates to a major infrastructure project, the notice is to be gazetted after
the expiration of 30 days and before the expiration of 18 months –
(a) after the day on which the notice to treat was served; or
(b) where more than one notice to treat was served, after the day on which the first notice to treat
was served.
(3)  A notice of acquisition –
(a) is to be in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b) is to specify the authorized purpose for which the land to which the notice relates is being
taken; and
(c) where the acquiring authority is not the Crown, is to be signed on behalf of the authority by
the clerk or the authority's legal practitioner.
(4)  An acquiring authority must cause a copy of a notice of acquisition to be laid on the table of each
House of Parliament within the first 21 sitting days of the House after the notice is gazetted.
(5)  Subsection (4) does not apply to a notice of acquisition of land to which section 16 applies.
(6)  Where a notice to treat has been served on an owner or the Public Trustee pursuant to section 11 or
66 , the failure by the acquiring authority to serve a notice to treat on another owner, or any owner, of the
subject land does not invalidate a notice of acquisition.
19.   Effect of notice of acquisition
(1)  On the gazettal of a notice of acquisition, the land –
(a) where the acquiring authority is the Crown, revests in the Crown absolutely, freed and
discharged from all estates, statutory reservations and dedications, except those that are specified
in, or created by, the notice; or
(b) where the acquiring authority is not the Crown, vests in the authority for the authorized
purpose, freed and discharged from all estates, statutory reservations and dedications, except
those that are specified in, or created by, the notice or are reserved to, or held by, the Crown –
and the estate of every owner of the land which is not so excepted is converted into a claim for
compensation under this Act.
(2)  The acquiring authority is entitled to possession of subject land on the gazettal of a notice of
acquisition.
(3)  Subsections (1) (b) and (2) do not apply in relation to an acquiring authority which –
(a) is a promoter; and
(b) has not deposited money with the Treasurer in accordance with section 17 .
(4)  If an acquiring authority which is a promoter causes a notice of acquisition to be published in the
Gazette before it has deposited money with the Treasurer under section 17 –
(a) the land specified in the notice vests in the authority for the authorized purposes, freed and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
18 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
discharged from all estates, statutory reservations and dedications, except those that are specified
in, or created by, the notice or are reserved to, or held by, the Crown when the money is so
deposited; and
(b) the authority is entitled to possession of that land when the money is so deposited.
20.   Registration of notices of acquisition
Within the period of 30 days after a notice of acquisition is gazetted, an acquiring authority must lodge
with the Recorder of Titles for registration the documents required by section 126 of the Land Titles Act
1980 .
21.   Notice to former owner after acquisition
(1)  An acquiring authority must, within the period of 30 days after a notice of acquisition is gazetted,
serve on every former owner of the land taken –
(a) a notice in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b) a copy of the notice of acquisition; and
(c) if part only of the former owner's land was taken, a plan of that part of the land; and
(d) if the whole of the former owner's land was taken and a plan of the land taken is available,
that plan.
(2)  A notice referred to in subsection (1) (a) is to inform the person on whom it is served that the person,
within 6 months after the notice is so served, is entitled to lodge a claim for compensation under this
Act.
(3)  This section does not apply where a notice of acquisition is gazetted pursuant to an agreement
referred to in section 16 .
22.   Amendment or revocation of notice of acquisition
(1)  An acquiring authority may, within the period of 6 months after a notice of acquisition is gazetted,
amend or revoke that notice if compensation has not been paid in respect of land to which the notice of
acquisition relates.
(2)  A notice of acquisition is to be amended or revoked by publishing in the Gazette a notice in a form
approved by the Secretary.
(3)  Where an acquiring authority amends or revokes a notice of acquisition, the authority must –
(a) by notice in writing, inform each former owner of the land specified in the notice of
acquisition of the reason for the amendment or revocation and what effect, if any, the amendment
or revocation has on his or her claim for compensation; and
(b) comply with section 20 as if the notice under subsection (2) were a notice of acquisition; and
(c) cause a copy of the notice under that subsection to be laid on the table of each House of
Parliament within the first 21 sitting days of the House after it is gazetted.
(4)  Subsection (3) (c) does not apply to a notice under subsection (2) which amends or revokes a notice
of acquisition gazetted pursuant to an agreement referred to in section 16 .
(5)  Where an acquiring authority amends a notice of acquisition, the amendments are taken to have
taken effect on the day on which the notice of acquisition was gazetted.
(6)  Where an acquiring authority amends a notice of acquisition –
(a) an estate in land which was extinguished by the notice of acquisition but which is not
extinguished by the notice of acquisition as amended is of full force and effect; and
(b) an estate in land, or allodial ownership of land, which was given by the notice of acquisition
to an acquiring authority but which would not have been so given by a notice of acquisition in
the form of the notice of acquisition as amended is extinguished; and
(c) all is to be as if the notice of acquisition had not been gazetted and the notice of acquisition as
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
19 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
amended had been gazetted in its stead.
(7)  On the gazettal of a notice which revokes a notice of acquisition –
(a) an estate in land to which that notice relates which existed immediately before the notice of
acquisition was gazetted is of full force and effect; and
(b) an estate in land, or allodial ownership of land, which was given by the notice of acquisition
to an acquiring authority is extinguished; and
(c) all is to be as if the notice of acquisition had not been gazetted.
23.   Reconveyances in relation to notices of acquisition
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) , at any time within the period of 6 months after a notice of acquisition is
gazetted, the acquiring authority may reconvey to the former owner, wholly or partly, any land that it has
acquired by the gazettal.
(2)  An acquiring authority is not entitled to reconvey any land for which it has paid compensation.
(3)  Nothing in this section limits the power of an acquiring authority to acquire the whole or any part of
the land specified in a notice of acquisition where the land has been reconveyed under subsection (1) .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
20 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 3 - Compensation Entitlement
Division 1 - Right to compensation
24.   Right to compensation
(1)  An owner of subject land whose estate in the land is taken, either wholly or in part, under this Act is
entitled to compensation under this Act.
(2)  An owner of land in relation to which a notice to treat has been served is entitled to compensation
under this Act if –
(a) the notice has been withdrawn or has lapsed; and
(b) as a consequence of the service and the withdrawal or lapsing of the notice, the owner has
suffered any loss, expense or damage (whether by a person entering into possession of, and
using, the land under Part 6 or otherwise).
(3)  A former owner of subject land is entitled to compensation under this Act if –
(a) the notice of acquisition was amended or revoked in accordance with section 22 ; and
(b) the former owner has suffered any loss, expense or damage by reason of the proceedings for
the acquisition of land and that amendment or revocation.
(4)  A former owner of subject land is entitled to compensation if –
(a) the subject land is reconveyed to that former owner under section 23 ; and
(b) the former owner has suffered any loss, expense or damage in relation to the proceedings for
acquisition and reconveyance.
(5)  An owner or occupier of land is entitled to compensation where –
(a) an acquiring authority has exercised any of its powers under Part 6 in relation to that land;
and
(b) the owner or occupier has suffered any damage, loss or expense by reason of –
(i) the exercise of those powers; or
(ii) action lawfully taken by a person pursuant to authorisation given under section 54 ,
54A , 55 or 56 .
25.   Mortgagee may waive right to compensation
(1)  A mortgagee under a mortgage over land taken may waive the mortgagee's right to compensation by
notice in writing provided to the acquiring authority.
(2)  A mortgagee under a mortgage over land taken who waives the right to compensation –
(a) cannot recover any compensation under this Act; and
(b) retains, in respect of the mortgage debt, any rights and remedies that the mortgagee may have
–
(i) against the mortgagor; or
(ii) in respect of any estate in land that is still subject to the mortgage.
Division 2 - Amount of compensation generally
26.   Application of Division 2
This Division does not apply in relation to compensation payable under this Act to a mortgagee under a
mortgage over land taken.
27.   Basis of compensation
(1)  In determining compensation under this Act, regard is to be had to the following matters:
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
21 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the market value of the estate of the claimant in the subject land;
(b) any special value the estate in the subject land may have to the claimant which is –
(i) a financial advantage incidental to the claimant's ownership of that estate, which
financial advantage is not to be taken to include the lessening of a tax liability; and
(ii) in addition to its market value;
(c) the damage caused by severance of the subject land from other land belonging to the
claimant;
(d) the betterment of other land belonging to the claimant which is caused by the carrying out of,
or the proposal to carry out, the authorized purpose;
(e) whether other land belonging to the claimant is injuriously affected by the carrying out of, or
the proposal to carry out, the authorized purpose;
(f) any disturbance relating to any loss or damage suffered, or cost reasonably incurred, by the
claimant as a consequence of the taking of the subject land or the operation of a business, or
other undertaking, on the subject land;
(fa) whether, under any other Act, the claimant or a former owner of the subject land has been
paid or awarded any compensation or compensatory costs in connection with the authorised
purposes for which it is being acquired.
(g) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(1A)  In determining compensation under this Act in relation to the subject land, regard is not to be had
to any infrastructure or structure, situated on or in the subject land, that has been, under an Act, lawfully
installed by or on behalf of the Crown, a public authority, a local authority or a promoter.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3) , the betterment of other land referred to in subsection (1) (d) is to be set
off against the amount of compensation determined under subsection (1) (a) , (b) , (c) , (e) , (f) and (g) .
(3)  Where an amount that is set off in respect of the betterment of other land equals or exceeds the
amount of compensation that would otherwise be payable by an acquiring authority, no compensation is
payable by the authority, nor is anything payable by the claimant to the authority in respect of that
betterment.
(4)  Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of the determination of compensation where the claimant
was, on the day on which the notice to treat or the first notice to treat in relation to the land was served, a
tenant at will of the subject land who ordinarily used the land as a principal residence.
28.   No compensation for disturbance in certain cases
No compensation is payable under section 27 (1) (f) where the subject land was not being used for its
highest and best use on the day on which the notice to treat, or the first notice to treat, in relation to the
land was served.
29.   Provisions applicable where land is zoned or reserved for public purpose
(1)  Where subject land is, by or under any Act, zoned or reserved for a public purpose on the day on
which a notice of acquisition in relation to the land is gazetted, and compensation under this Act or any
other Act has not previously been paid in respect of that zoning or reservation –
(a) any limitation on the use of the land imposed by, or as a consequence of, the zoning or
reservation is to be disregarded in making an assessment of compensation under this Act; and
(b) it is to be assumed that the land was, on that day, zoned or reserved in such manner as would
have been likely if there had been no proposal or requirement for public use.
(2)  An acquiring authority must apply to the Commission for a determination as to the zoning which
would most likely apply if the subject land was not otherwise zoned or reserved for a public purpose
where–
(a) the appropriate zoning of the land under subsection (1) (b) cannot be readily determined or
assumed; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
22 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) there is disagreement on such appropriate zoning.
(3)  The Commission may make a determination with respect to an application under subsection (2) .
(4)  A determination under subsection (3) –
(a) is to be provided in a certificate signed by the Commission; and
(b) is final.
30.   Compensation for principal residence
(1)  This section applies in relation to a claimant who –
(a) had an estate in fee simple in subject land; and
(b) ordinarily used that land for a principal residence; and
(c) has obtained, or intends to obtain, some other place for a principal residence.
(2)  Where the highest and best use of subject land was as a principal residence, compensation is to be
determined, at the request of the claimant and with the consent of the Valuer-General, on the basis of the
reasonable cost of rehousing the claimant as an owner in fee simple, at no cost to the claimant, in a
suitable residence of at least equivalent standard and location in this State to that which the claimant has
had taken.
(3)  Notwithstanding that compensation is determined in accordance with subsection (2) , additional
compensation may be awarded in respect of any hardship that the claimant may suffer because the
claimant cannot establish himself or herself in a suitable residence solely by reason of age, infirmity or
want of means.
(4)  For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) –
(a) a person who is a mortgagee under a mortgage in respect of land that is not subject to the
Land Titles Act 1980 and who is not in possession of the land, is taken not to have an estate in
fee simple in the land; and
(b) a person who is a mortgagor under a mortgage in respect of such land and who is in
possession of the land is taken to have an estate in fee simple in the land.
31.   Compensation where no general market for interest taken
(1)  Compensation may be determined by disregarding the market value of subject land and by having
regard to an amount ascertained as provided in subsection (2) if –
(a) that land was used for a particular purpose, other than the purpose of a principal residence, on
the day on which the notice to treat, or the first notice to treat, in respect of that land was served;
and
(b) the claimant has obtained other land in this State to be used for that particular purpose; and
(c) the claimant has obtained the approval of the Valuer-General to the obtaining of that other
land; and
(d) like land being used for that particular purpose and with similar amenities is not available on
the open market.
(2)  The amount referred to in subsection (1) is ascertained in accordance with the following formula:
Where –
A is the amount of compensation to be determined; and
C is the reasonable cost of acquiring the other land referred to in that subsection; and
E is the expenses incurred in acquiring that other land; and
RE is the expenses incurred, or likely to be incurred, by the claimant which are incidental to
relocation, including the expenses incurred in establishing similar amenities to those which the
subject land had; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
23 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I is the amount by which the immediate financial position of the claimant has improved, or is
likely to improve, due to the relocation.
(3)  The costs and expenses referred to in subsection (2) are to be ascertained as at the day on which, in
the circumstances, it was or would be reasonably practicable for the claimant to incur the costs or
expenses.
32.   Compensation for tenant at will
A claimant who –
(a) was a tenant at will of any subject land; and
(b) ordinarily used that land as a principal residence; and
(c) is required to give up possession of that land in order to enable the authorized purpose to be
carried out –
is entitled to compensation for the costs reasonably incurred in removing to, and taking up occupation as
a tenant in, alternative accommodation in this State.
33.   Matters to be disregarded in determining compensation
(1)  Each of the following matters is to be disregarded in the determination of compensation in respect of
subject land:
(a) any increase in the value of the subject land resulting from its use in a manner, or for a
purpose, contrary to law;
(b) any increase or decrease in the value of the subject land arising from the carrying out, or the
proposal to carry out, the authorised purpose for which the land was taken;
(c) any special value the subject land may have to the acquiring authority which –
(i) is caused by the particular need the authority has for that land; and
(ii) is in addition to its market value;
(d) any expectation by a claimant who was a lessee of the subject land that the claimant's lease
would be renewed, other than an expectation which is based on an option of renewal in the lease
contract;
(e) in relation to land which has been acquired or is being acquired for the purposes of a major
infrastructure project, any increase or decrease in the value of the subject land arising, either
directly or indirectly, from –
(i) the order under section 7(2) of the Major Infrastructure Development Approvals Act
1999 by which the major infrastructure project was declared or anything done pursuant to
that order; or
(ii) the amendment, in relation to the major infrastructure project, of a planning scheme or
special planning order pursuant to section 11A of the Major Infrastructure Development
Approvals Act 1999 or under any other Act; or
(iii) the grant of a permit for a use or development which is comprised in the major
infrastructure project, whether the permit relates to the subject land or to other land; or
(iv) any use or development of the subject land or of other land which is proposed or
which has occurred in connection with the major infrastructure project.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , "development", "permit" and "use" have the same meanings as
in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 .
Division 3 - Amount of compensation for mortgagee
34.   Amount of compensation for mortgagee
(1)  Where all of land which is subject to a mortgage is taken, the amount of compensation to which the
mortgagee is entitled under this Act is –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
24 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the principal secured by the mortgage; and
(b) the interest due on the mortgage at the day on which the acquiring authority admits the
mortgagee's claim for compensation and 30 days' additional interest at the interest rate of the
mortgage at that day; and
(c) the costs and charges, if any, due to the mortgagee under the mortgage; and
(d) the mortgagee's costs relating to producing or surrendering, and to executing, any deeds and
documents that are required to be produced, surrendered or executed under section 45 ; and
(e) a sum sufficient to meet the costs of reinvestment of the principal, if the mortgage is paid off
prematurely; and
(f) if –
(i) the mortgage is paid off prematurely; and
(ii) the principal is or is to be reinvested; and
(iii) the rate of interest secured by the mortgage is higher than the rate of interest that can
be obtained or can reasonably be expected to be obtained on reinvestment in a
comparable form of security, regard being had to the then current rate of interest –
a sum to meet the loss sustained by the mortgagee by reason of the premature repayment of the
principal.
(2)  Where a part of land which is subject to a mortgage is taken, the mortgagee may elect to have all or
part of any compensation to which the mortgagor is entitled under this Act paid to the mortgagee as a
payment towards the principal secured by the mortgage and the interest due on the mortgage at the day
on which the acquiring authority admits the mortgagee's entitlement to make the election.
(3)  An election under subsection (2) is to be –
(a) in writing; and
(b) served on the acquiring authority within 6 months after the service on the mortgagee of a
notice under section 21 or 22 (3) .
(4)  Where a mortgagee makes an election under subsection (2) , the acquiring authority must pay to the
mortgagee –
(a) as specified in the election, all or part of the compensation to which the mortgagor is entitled
under this Act; and
(b) the costs and charges, if any, due to the mortgagee under the mortgage; and
(c) the mortgagee's costs relating to producing or surrendering, and to executing, any deeds and
documents that are required to be produced, surrendered or executed under section 45 ; and
(d) if the mortgage is fully paid off, 30 days' additional interest at the interest rate of the
mortgage at the day referred to in subsection (2) ; and
(e) if the mortgage is paid off prematurely, a sum sufficient to meet the costs of reinvestment of
the principal; and
(f) if –
(i) the mortgage is paid off prematurely; and
(ii) the principal is or is to be reinvested; and
(iii) the rate of interest secured by the mortgage is higher than the rate of interest that can
be obtained or can reasonably be expected to be obtained on reinvestment in a
comparable form of security, regard being had to the then current rate of interest –
a sum to meet the loss sustained by the mortgagee by reason of the premature repayment of the
principal.
Division 4 - Day on which compensation to be determined
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
25 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
35.   Day on which compensation to be determined
Compensation in respect of the loss of an estate in land taken is to be determined –
(a) as at the day on which the notice to treat in relation to the land was served; or
(b) where more than one such notice to treat was served, as at the day on which the first notice to
treat was served; or
(c) where the land is land referred to in section 70 , as at the day on which the acquiring authority
first entered on the land; or
(d) where the land is land referred to in section 54A , as at the day on which a person enters on to
the land pursuant to an authorisation under section 54A(2) or the day on which a notice to treat in
relation to the land is served on the owner of the land under section 11 , whichever is the earlier.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
26 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 4 - Claims for, and Determination of, Compensation
Division 1 - Claims for compensation
36.   Claims for compensation
(1)  A person who claims to be entitled to compensation under this Act may make a claim for
compensation in accordance with subsection (2) .
(2)  A claim for compensation is to –
(a) be in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b) include particulars of the claimant's estate in the land taken, if any; and
(c) include particulars of the claimant's entitlement to compensation; and
(d) be served on the acquiring authority.
(3)  Where a mortgage is converted, wholly or in part, into a claim for compensation under this Act, the
mortgagee –
(a) may join with the mortgagor in making a claim for compensation; or
(b) may make an independent claim for compensation; or
(c) may waive the right to compensation as provided in section 25 .
37.   Time for making claim for compensation
A claim for compensation is to be served on the acquiring authority –
(a) if the claim is for land taken by the acquiring authority, within the period of 6 months after the
service of a notice under section 21 or 22 (3) ; or
(b) if the claim is for any loss or expense suffered by reason of the service of a notice to treat
followed by the withdrawal or lapsing of that notice, within the period of 6 months after that
notice has been withdrawn or has lapsed; or
(c) if the claim is for any loss, expense or damage suffered by reason of the gazettal of a notice of
acquisition followed by the amendment or revocation of that notice, within the period of 6
months after the service of the notice referred to in section 22 (3) ; or
(d) if the claim is for damage or loss suffered by reason of the exercise of any power under Part 6
, within the period of 6 months after the completion of the acts, matters and things in respect of
which compensation is claimed.
38.   Effect of failure to make claim for compensation
(1)  Where –
(a) land has been taken by an acquiring authority; and
(b) within the period specified in section 37 or determined under section 78 a claim for
compensation pursuant to section 24 (1) has not been served on the acquiring authority by –
(i) an owner known to the authority; or
(ii) the Public Trustee as owner or on behalf of an owner –
the authority must apply to the Court for a determination of the compensation payable to the owner or
Public Trustee.
(2)  An application under subsection (1) is to be made –
(a) in the prescribed form; and
(b) within 30 days after the expiration of the period referred to in that subsection.
(3)  Where a person who is entitled to make a claim for compensation pursuant to section 24 (2) , (3) ,
(4) or (5) fails to serve that claim on the acquiring authority within the period specified in section 37 or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
27 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
determined under section 78 , compensation is not payable to that person.
39.   Procedure on receipt of claim for compensation in respect of entitlement to claim
(1)  Within the period of 60 days or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the period of 6 months
after a claim for compensation has been served on an acquiring authority, the authority must notify the
claimant, by notice in writing, that it–
(a) admits the claimant's entitlement to compensation; or
(b) rejects the claimant's entitlement to compensation; or
(c) requires the claimant to produce such deeds, documents and particulars relating to, or
evidencing, the claimant's entitlement to compensation as the authority reasonably requires
within the period of 30 days after the receipt of the notification.
(2)  Where a claimant produces the deeds, documents and particulars required by the acquiring authority
within the period specified in subsection (1) (c) or determined under section 78 , the authority must,
within 30 days after receiving those deeds, documents and particulars, notify the claimant, by notice in
writing, that it –
(a) admits the claimant's entitlement to compensation; or
(b) rejects the claimant's entitlement to compensation.
(3)  Where a claimant fails to produce the deeds, documents and particulars required by the acquiring
authority within the period specified in subsection (1) (c) or determined under section 78 –
(a) the claimant's entitlement to compensation is to be taken to have been rejected; and
(b) the acquiring authority must, within 30 days after the expiration of that period, notify the
claimant, by notice in writing, that it rejects the claimant's entitlement to compensation.
(4)  Where –
(a) an acquiring authority has admitted a claimant's entitlement to compensation; and
(b) that compensation has not been paid to the claimant –
the authority may, by notice in writing served on the claimant, withdraw its admittance of, and reject, the
claimant's entitlement to compensation.
(5)  An acquiring authority is taken to have rejected the entitlement to compensation of a claimant if the
acquiring authority has failed to notify the claimant in accordance with subsection (1) , (2) or (3) .
(6)  A claimant may apply to the Court for a determination of the claimant's entitlement to compensation
if that entitlement has been rejected by an acquiring authority.
(7)  An application under subsection (6) is to be made –
(a) within 60 days after the claimant has received notice that the entitlement to compensation has
been rejected; or
(b) where the claimant does not receive a notice referred to in subsection (1) , (2) or (3) , within
60 days after the expiration of the period which is specified in that subsection as the period
during which the acquiring authority is required to provide that notice.
40.   Procedure on receipt of claim for compensation in respect of amount claimed
(1)  Where an acquiring authority notifies a claimant in respect of the claimant's entitlement to
compensation under section 39 (1) , it must notify the claimant, in the notice referred to in that section,
that it –
(a) admits the amount of compensation claimed; or
(b) rejects the amount of compensation claimed; or
(c) is delaying its determination in relation to the amount of compensation claimed until the
claimant has produced the deeds, documents and particulars specified in the notice.
(2)  Where an acquiring authority has delayed its determination under subsection (1) (c) and notifies a
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
28 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
claimant under section 39 (2) (a) that it admits the claimant's entitlement to compensation, the authority
must notify the claimant, in the notice referred to in that section, that it –
(a) admits the amount of compensation claimed; or
(b) rejects the amount of compensation claimed.
(3)  Where an acquiring authority admits the amount of compensation claimed, the notice containing that
admission is to contain a statement that the compensation will be paid to the claimant after –
(a) the claimant's entitlement to compensation has been admitted by the authority or finally
determined under this Part; and
(b) the claimant has complied with section 45 (c) and (d) .
(4)  If an acquiring authority rejects the amount of compensation claimed, it must offer the claimant, in
the notice which notifies the claimant of that rejection, such amount as it considers reasonable in
satisfaction of the claim for compensation.
(5)  A notice referred to in subsection (4) is to notify the claimant that, if the claimant accepts the offer,
the compensation will be paid after –
(a) the claimant's entitlement to compensation has been admitted by the acquiring authority or
finally determined under this Part; and
(b) the claimant has complied with section 45 (c) and (d) .
(6)  Where an acquiring authority has offered the claimant an amount in satisfaction of the claim for
compensation under subsection (4) , the claimant must notify the authority within the period of 30 days
after having received that offer, or a period determined under section 78 , of the claimant's acceptance or
rejection of that offer.
(7)  Where a claimant fails to notify the acquiring authority of the claimant's acceptance or rejection of
an offer made under subsection (4) within the period specified in subsection (6) , the claimant is to be
taken to have rejected that offer.
(8)  An acquiring authority must obtain the approval of the Valuer-General before–
(a) notifying a claimant that it admits or rejects the amount of compensation claimed; or
(b) offering the claimant an amount of compensation in satisfaction of a claim.
(9)  If the Minister is satisfied that special circumstances in relation to a particular claim for
compensation exist, the Minister may, by notice in writing provided to the acquiring authority, exempt
the authority from the operation of subsection (8) in respect of that claim.
Division 2 - Disputed claims for compensation
41.   Disputed claim for compensation
A claim for compensation becomes a disputed claim for compensation where the amount of
compensation claimed by a claimant is rejected by the acquiring authority and –
(a) the authority does not offer another amount of compensation in satisfaction of the claim; or
(b) the claimant rejects the amount of compensation offered by the authority under section 40 (4)
.
42.   Methods of determining disputed claims
(1)  Subject to this Act, a disputed claim for compensation is to be determined –
(a) by agreement between the acquiring authority and the claimant; or
(b) with the written consent of the acquiring authority and the claimant, by arbitration under the
Commercial Arbitration Act 2011 ; or
(c) with the written consent of the acquiring authority and the claimant, by a Special Arbitrator;
or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
29 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(d) on the application of the acquiring authority or the claimant, by the Court.
(2)  A disputed claim for compensation is not to be determined by arbitration or the Court unless the
claimant's entitlement to compensation has been admitted by the acquiring authority or determined by
the Court.
(3)  Notwithstanding subsection (2) , the Court may, on its own motion or on the application of either an
acquiring authority or a claimant, hear and determine an application under subsection (1) (d) and an
application under section 39 (6) in the same proceedings.
43.   Cessation of arbitration if more claimants discovered
(1)  Where, after the commencement of an arbitration pursuant to section 42 (1) (b) or (c) , the acquiring
authority learns of other persons who are entitled to make a claim for compensation, the authority may,
in respect of the subject land, revoke its consent to the arbitration by serving notice, in writing, of the
revocation on the claimant and the arbitrator.
(2)  An acquiring authority which revokes its consent under subsection (1) must pay all the costs
incurred in the arbitration.
(3)  An arbitration ceases on the day on which the notice referred to in subsection (1) is served on the
arbitrator.
44.   Effect of failure to determine or proceed to determine disputed claim
Where, within the period of 90 days or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the period of 6
months after a claim for compensation against an acquiring authority becomes a disputed claim for
compensation–
(a) the disputed claim has not been determined by agreement between the authority and the
claimant; or
(b) the disputed claim has not been referred to arbitration; or
(c) no process in an action for compensation by the claimant against the authority to determine
the disputed claim has been served on it–
the authority must, within 30 days after the expiration of that period, apply to the Court for the
determination of the disputed claim for compensation.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
30 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 5 - Payment of Compensation
45.   Payment of compensation to claimant
Where –
(a) a claimant's entitlement to compensation has been admitted, and not subsequently rejected, by
an acquiring authority or has been finally determined under Part 4 ; and
(b) the amount of compensation has been agreed or finally determined under Part 4 ; and
(c) the claimant has produced or surrendered all deeds and documents relating to, or evidencing,
the claimant's title to the claimant's estate in the subject land that the authority reasonably
requires to be produced or surrendered; and
(d) the claimant has executed the documents the authority reasonably requires to be executed –
the authority must pay to the claimant the agreed or determined amount of compensation, as the case
may require, and any interest payable on that amount within the period of 60 days after the amount of
compensation has been so agreed or determined, or the claimant's entitlement to compensation has been
so admitted or determined, whichever occurs later.
46.   Payment of compensation by promoter, &c.
(1)  For the purposes of making a payment under section 45 or 50 , an acquiring authority who is a
promoter may use money deposited with the Treasurer in anticipation of the payment of compensation
by the authority and kept in an account kept in the Public Account in accordance with section 17 .
(2)  If an acquiring authority who is a promoter fails to pay to a claimant the compensation and interest
payable under this Act within the period specified in section 45 , the claimant may request the Treasurer,
in writing, to pay that compensation and interest.
(3)  Within 30 days after receiving a request referred to in subsection (2) , the Treasurer must pay any
compensation and interest payable to the claimant which remains unpaid.
(4)  For the purposes of complying with subsection (3) , the Treasurer –
(a) may use money kept in an account kept in the Public Account in accordance with section 17
in anticipation of the payment to a claimant of compensation and interest on that compensation;
and
(b) if the money kept in that account is insufficient to meet that payment, must make that
payment out of money provided by Parliament for the purpose.
(5)  After all compensation in respect of which an acquiring authority had deposited money with the
Treasurer to be kept in an account kept in the Public Account in accordance with section 17 and all
interest relating to that compensation has been paid, the Treasurer must–
(a) pay any money remaining in that account to the authority; and
(b) close that account.
(6)  If the Treasurer has made a payment of compensation, interest or compensation and interest to a
claimant under this section out of money provided by Parliament for the purpose, the Treasurer may
recover the amount of that payment from the acquiring authority that failed to comply with section 45 in
a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due to the Crown.
47.   Interest on compensation
(1)  Except as provided in subsection (2) compensation bears interest on and from the day on which –
(a) the notice of acquisition was gazetted; or
(b) the notice to treat was withdrawn or lapsed; or
(c) the acquiring authority or the person authorized by the acquiring authority enters into
possession of the subject land –
whichever occurs first, to and including the day on which the compensation is paid to the claimant.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
31 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2)  Compensation in respect of loss, damage or expense incurred as a consequence of –
(a) the amendment or revocation of a notice of acquisition; or
(b) the exercise by an acquiring authority of any power under Part 6 –
bears interest on and from the day on which that loss, damage or expense occurred or was incurred.
(3)  The interest payable under subsection (1) or (2) is calculated on a daily basis at the prescribed rate
applicable to that day.
(4)  If the amount of compensation determined under this Act by arbitration or the Court is not more than
the amount offered by the acquiring authority under section 40 (4) , interest runs only up to and
including the thirtieth day after the day on which that offer was communicated to the claimant, unless the
arbitrator or the Court determines otherwise.
(5)  A certificate by the Treasurer that, on a day specified in the certificate, a rate of interest so specified
was the prescribed rate on that day –
(a) is admissible in evidence in an arbitration, or in any proceeding before the Court, with respect
to a claim for compensation; and
(b) is evidence of that fact.
48.   Acquiring authority to pay certain costs
(1)  An acquiring authority must pay the costs reasonably incurred by a claimant where those costs are
not incurred as the result of the commencement of proceedings or arbitration pursuant to section 42 (1) if
those costs were incurred by the claimant as a consequence of –
(a) the taking of subject land; or
(b) the service and withdrawal or lapsing of a notice to treat; or
(c) the amendment or revocation of a notice of acquisition; or
(d) the reconveyance of land taken to its former owner; or
(e) the exercise by the authority of any power under Part 6 .
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the fees of the claimant's legal practitioner payable by the
acquiring authority are to be determined in accordance with the provisions of –
(a) the relevant Supreme Court Rules; and
(b) any regulations made under the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932  –
in relation to the fees of legal practitioners.
(3)  In the absence of agreement between an acquiring authority and a claimant as to the amount of the
costs reasonably incurred, the amount of those costs may be referred, in writing, by either the owner or
the authority to the taxing officer of the Court.
(4)  The taxing officer of the Court shall determine the amount of costs referred to the taxing officer
under subsection (3) in accordance with the provisions for the taxation of costs contained in the relevant
Supreme Court Rules.
(5)  The claimant or the acquiring authority may apply under –
(a) the relevant Supreme Court Rules; and
(b) any regulations made under the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932  –
in relation to the review of the taxation of costs of legal practitioners for an order to review the taxation
of costs, and those rules and regulations apply in relation to the making of such an order.
49.   Payments to be good discharge
(1)  Full payment of compensation made by an acquiring authority to a claimant in accordance with this
Act is a good and valid discharge of the liability of the authority to that claimant in respect of the
claimant's entitlement to, and claim for, compensation under this Act.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
32 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2)  It is not necessary for an acquiring authority to see to the application of any compensation paid to a
claimant in accordance with this Act or to the performance of any trusts.
50.   Advance payment of compensation where entitlement is established
Where –
(a) a claimant's entitlement to compensation has been admitted, and not subsequently rejected, by
an acquiring authority or has been finally determined under Part 4 ; and
(b) the claimant has –
(i) produced or surrendered all deeds and documents relating to, or evidencing, the
claimant's title to the claimant's estate in the subject land that the authority reasonably
requires to be produced or surrendered; and
(ii) executed the documents the authority reasonably requires to be executed –
the authority may pay to the claimant not more than 90% of the amount of compensation assessed by the
acquiring authority pending the final determination of the amount of compensation to be paid to the
claimant.
51.   Power of acquiring authorities to deduct certain charges from purchase or compensation money
(1)  Where a person whose land has been acquired owes or owed any prescribed charge in respect of that
land immediately before the acquisition, the acquiring authority may deduct the amount of the prescribed
charge from the purchase-money or compensation and pay that amount to the person to whom it is due.
(2)  Where, under subsection (1) , an acquiring authority pays any prescribed charge to the person to
whom it is due –
(a) the tender by the authority of the balance of the purchase-money is, for all purposes, a
sufficient tender of the purchase-money agreed to be paid by the authority to that person; or
(b) the liability of the authority to pay compensation is discharged to the extent of that payment.
(3)  In this section, prescribed charge means any tax, rate or charge payable to the Crown (whether in
right of the Commonwealth or of this State) or any rate or charge payable to a local authority or other
statutory body authorized to levy such rate or charge on land.
52.   Deposit of compensation in trust account
(1)  An acquiring authority may, before an amount of compensation payable under this Act is agreed or
finally determined –
(a) open in an authorised deposit-taking institution a trust account in the name of the authority for
a person the authority believes may be entitled to compensation under this Act; and
(b) deposit in that account the amount of compensation that the authority estimates is payable to
the person.
(2)  Where an acquiring authority has opened a trust account pursuant to subsection (1) , the authority
must not withdraw any part of the amount deposited in the account or any interest accrued on that
amount or close that account unless –
(a) the authority has rejected the person's entitlement to compensation and the person has not
made an application under section 39 (6) ; or
(b) the person's entitlement to compensation has been admitted and not subsequently rejected or
has been finally determined under Part 4 and the amount of compensation has been agreed or
finally determined under that Part; or
(c) the acquiring authority proposes to pay a sum of money in satisfaction of a claim for
compensation into the Court under section 53 ; or
(d) the acquiring authority proposes to pay a sum of money to the person under section 50 ; or
(e) the acquiring authority proposes to pay a prescribed charge under section 51 ; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
33 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(f) where the person is entitled to compensation under section 24 (2) , (3) , (4) or (5) , a claim for
compensation has not been made within the period specified in section 37 or determined under
section 78 .
(3)  Where a trust account is closed, the acquiring authority may use for its own purposes –
(a) if the account was closed under subsection (2) (a) , (b) , (c) or (d) , any amount of the
proceeds of that account which exceeds the amount paid to the claimant or the Court; or
(b) if the account was closed under subsection (2) (f) , the proceeds of that account.
(4)  Where an amount is withdrawn from a trust account under subsection (2) (e) , the acquiring
authority must use that amount to pay the prescribed charge referred to in that subsection.
53.   Payment into Court
(1)  Where proceedings before the Court have been commenced pursuant to this Act, an acquiring
authority may pay into the Court a sum of money in satisfaction of a claim for compensation under this
Act.
(2)  Any payment made by an acquiring authority to the claimant or on behalf of the claimant is taken to
have been paid into the Court under subsection (1) on the day on which the proceedings commenced.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
34 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 6 - Powers in Relation to Land
54.   Powers of entry and examination
(1)  An acquiring authority may authorize a person, in writing, to enter on land to ascertain whether that
or other land is suitable for an authorized purpose or to obtain information in relation to land.
(2)  A person authorized to enter on land to ascertain whether that land is suitable for an authorized
purpose or to obtain information in relation to that land may –
(a) enter and remain on that land with such assistants, vehicles, machinery and equipment as the
person thinks fit; and
(b) make surveys, take levels, sink pits, examine the soil, take samples and do any other thing in
relation to the land; and
(c) remove from the land any samples taken under paragraph (b) .
(3)  A person authorized to enter on land to ascertain whether other land is suitable for an authorized
purpose or to obtain information in relation to other land may enter and remain on the first-mentioned
land with such assistants, vehicles, machinery and equipment as the person thinks fit.
(3A)  A person authorized to enter on land to ascertain whether other land is suitable for an authorized
purpose or to obtain information in relation to other land, and any person assisting such a person on the
land, must ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure that –
(a) activities on the land taken by the person are in accordance with contemporary best practice in
relation to reducing the spread of pests and disease; and
(b) so far as is reasonably practicable, activities on the land taken by the person do not conflict
with the interests of the owner or occupier of the land; and
(c) any damage to the land caused by the person is remediated.
(4)  An authorization under subsection (1) is valid for the period of 6 months commencing on the day on
which the authorization was given.
(5)  A person who is authorized to enter on land under subsection (1) must, more than 4 days before the
day on which the person enters on that land, notify the prescribed persons of –
(a) the person's intention to enter on that land; and
(b) the purpose of the entry; and
(c) the nature of the work the person proposes to carry out or the use to which the person
proposes to put that land; and
(d) the probable duration of the entry.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
(6)  In subsection (5) , prescribed persons means –
(a) the occupier, if any, of the land that a person is authorized to enter under subsection (1) ; and
(b) the owner in fee simple of that land; and
(c) if that land is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 but is subject to a mortgage, the
mortgagor.
54A.   Powers of entry to carry out works in relation to major infrastructure projects
(1)  In this section –
authorisation means an authorisation given under subsection (2) ;
notified corridor has the same meaning as in the Major Infrastructure Development Approvals
Act 1999 ;
permit has the same meaning as in the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 ;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
35 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
prescribed person means –
(a) the occupier, if any, of the land on to which a person is authorised to enter; or
(b) the owner in fee simple of that land; or
(c) if that land is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 but is subject to a mortgage, the
mortgagor.
(2)  Subject to subsection (4) , the Minister may authorise in writing a person to enter on to land within a
notified corridor for the purposes of the implementation of a major infrastructure project.
(3)  If an order under section 14B of the Major Infrastructure Development Approvals Act 1999 amends
a corridor described in a permit by adding land to the corridor, that land is taken to be within a notified
corridor for the purposes of subsection (2) .
(4)  The Minister may not authorise entry under subsection (2) unless the Minister is satisfied that the
works that are proposed to be carried out on the land are authorised by a permit and –
(a) the period specified under section 61 of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 for
appealing the decision of the planning authority to grant the permit has expired and no appeal has
been lodged; or
(b) where such an appeal has been lodged, the appeal has been determined.
(5)  The Minister may impose conditions or restrictions on any authorisation given under subsection (2) .
(6)  The Minister must give notice in writing to any prescribed person of an authorisation given under
subsection (2) .
(7)  The Minister may revoke an authorisation given under subsection (2) .
(8)  If notice under subsection (6) is given to a prescribed person by post, the notice is taken to have
been received by the prescribed person 5 days after the day on which it was posted.
(9)  After 7 days from the day on which the notice is taken under subsection (8) to have been received by
a prescribed person, a person authorised to enter on to the land referred to in the notice may enter and
remain on the land and use that land as permitted under a permit referred to in subsection (4) .
(10)  The proponent of the major infrastructure project for which entry is authorised under subsection (2)
must provide the acquiring authority with a plan indicating the land to be acquired for the use or
development comprised in the major infrastructure project in respect of which the authorisation is given
not later than 5 months, or such extended period as the Minister may approve under subsection (10A) ,
after the date of the authorisation referred to in subsection (2) .
(10A)  Subject to this section, the Minister may grant approval in writing extending the period within
which a plan must be provided pursuant to subsection (10) .
(10B)  The Minister may grant approval under subsection (10A) on more than one occasion, but must
not approve an extension of the period referred to in subsection (10A) by more than 12 months in total.
(10C)  The Minister may only approve an extension of the period referred to in subsection (10A) if the
Minister is satisfied that the extension is reasonably necessary and after consultation with any affected
landowners and the Executive Director of the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association.
(10D)  As soon as practicable after granting an approval under subsection (10A) , the Minister must
cause a copy of the approval to be served on any person who is a prescribed person in respect of the
authorisation to which the approval relates.
(11)  The plan referred to in subsection (10) is to contain such detail as the acquiring authority may
require to undertake the acquisition of the land to be acquired and is to include all land on which works
have been constructed pursuant to the authorisation referred to in subsection (2) .
(12)  As soon as practicable after receiving the plan referred to in subsection (10) , the acquiring
authority must cause a notice to treat to be served in accordance with section 11 on the owner of the land
to be acquired.
(13)  If a notice to treat is served in respect of land to which an authorisation under subsection (2)
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
36 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
relates, the authorisation ceases, except for the purposes of carrying out any necessary rehabilitation
works, to apply to any land not identified in the notice to treat as being land proposed to be taken.
55.   Immediate entry
(1)  In this section –
authorization means an authorization given under subsection (2) ;
prescribed persons means –
(a) the occupier, if any, of the land that a person is authorized to enter; and
(b) the owner in fee simple of that land; and
(c) if that land is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 but is subject to a mortgage, the
mortgagor;
required land means land –
(a) in respect of which an acquiring authority has served a notice to treat; and
(b) which the authority has not yet acquired.
(2)  An acquiring authority may authorize, in writing, a person to enter on required land where the
authority determines that it or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the proponent of that project
urgently needs possession of the land in relation to the authorized purpose for which the required land is
proposed to be acquired or any purpose incidental to the authorized purpose.
(3)  An acquiring authority, other than the Crown, must not give an authorization unless it has first
obtained the consent to the giving of the authorization of –
(a) in the case of a public authority established or constituted by or under an Act, the Minister
administering that Act; or
(b) in the case of a public authority established or constituted by or under the Royal Prerogative,
the Minister administering that authority; or
(c) in the case of a local authority –
(i) created or continued under the Local Government Act 1993 , the Minister
administering that Act; or
(ii) the incorporation of which is created or continued under any other Act, the Minister
administering that other Act; or
(d) in the case of a promoter authorized to acquire land by a special Act, the Minister
administering that Act.
(4)  An acquiring authority must notify the prescribed persons of the giving of that authorization.
(5)  After the expiration of a period of 24 hours commencing on the receipt of a notice referred to in
subsection (4) by the occupier, if any, or the first of the other prescribed persons to be so notified, a
person so authorized to enter on that land may enter and remain on the land and use the land in relation
to the authorized purpose for which the land is proposed to be acquired or any purpose incidental to the
authorized purpose.
(6)  A person authorized under subsection (2) must not enter on land before the expiration of the period
specified in subsection (5) .
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
56.   Power to occupy adjacent land
(1)  In this section –
adjacent land means land which is within a distance of 200 metres from the nearest boundary of
required land or land acquired under this Act, but does not include –
(a) any garden, orchard or plantation attached or belonging to a house or any park,
planted walk, avenue or ground ornamentally planted; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
37 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) land that is less than 200 metres from an occupied dwelling-house situated on land
other than the required land or land so acquired;
prescribed persons means –
(a) the occupier, if any, of adjacent land that a person is authorized to enter under
subsection (2) (a) or (b) ; and
(b) the owner in fee simple of that adjacent land; and
(c) if that adjacent land is not subject to the Land Titles Act 1980 but is subject to a
mortgage, the mortgagor;
required land means –
(a) land –
(i) in respect of which an acquiring authority has served a notice to treat; and
(ii) which the authority has not yet acquired; or
(b) land in respect of which an authorisation has been given under section 54A(2) .
(2)  An acquiring authority may authorize, in writing, a person to enter on adjacent land where –
(a) the authority determines that it or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the proponent
of that project urgently needs possession of required land in relation to the authorized purpose for
which the required land is proposed to be acquired or any purpose incidental to the authorized
purpose; or
(b) the authority has acquired land.
(3)  An acquiring authority, other than the Crown, must not give an authorization under subsection (2)
(a) unless it has first obtained the consent to the giving of the authorization of –
(a) in the case of a public authority established or constituted by or under an Act, the Minister
administering that Act; or
(b) in the case of a public authority established or constituted by or under the Royal Prerogative,
the Minister administering that authority; or
(c) in the case of a local authority –
(i) created or continued under the Local Government Act 1993 , the Minister
administering that Act; or
(ii) the incorporation of which is created or continued under any other Act, the Minister
administering that other Act; or
(d) in the case of a promoter authorized to acquire land by a special Act, the Minister
administering that Act.
(4)  An acquiring authority must notify the prescribed persons of –
(a) the giving of the authorization under subsection (2) (a) ; and
(b) the period, as estimated by the acquiring authority, during which the person so authorized will
occupy the adjacent land.
(5)  After the expiration of a period of 24 hours commencing on the receipt of a notice referred to in
subsection (4) by the occupier, if any, or the first of the other prescribed persons to be so notified, a
person so authorized to enter on that land may enter and remain on the land and use the land in relation
to the authorized purpose for which required land is proposed to be acquired or any purpose incidental to
the authorized purpose.
(6)  A person authorized under subsection (2) (a) must not enter on land before the expiration of the
period specified in subsection (5) .
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
(7)  An acquiring authority must notify the prescribed persons of –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
38 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the giving of the authorization under subsection (2) (b) ; and
(b) the period, as estimated by the acquiring authority, during which the person so authorized will
occupy the adjacent land.
(8)  After the expiration of a period of 4 days commencing on the receipt of a notice referred to in
subsection (7) by the last of the prescribed persons to be so notified, a person so authorized to enter on
that land may enter and remain on the land and use the land in relation to the authorized purpose for
which the other land has been acquired or any purpose incidental to the authorized purpose.
(9)  A person authorized under subsection (2) (b) must not enter on land before the expiration of the
period specified in subsection (8) .
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
(10)  A person authorized to enter on adjacent land under subsection (2) (a) or (b) may –
(a) enter on the adjacent land; and
(b) occupy the adjacent land for as long as is necessary for the purposes of any works connected
with the carrying out of the authorized purpose for which the acquiring authority is acquiring
required land or has acquired land; and
(c) in connection with the carrying out of such an authorized purpose –
(i) construct or place any plant, machinery, equipment or goods on the adjacent land; and
(ii) take from, or deposit on, the adjacent land sand, clay, stone, earth, gravel, timber,
wood or other materials or goods; and
(iii) make roads, cuttings or excavations on or in the adjacent land; and
(iv) erect workshops, sheds and other buildings of a temporary character on the adjacent
land; and
(v) manufacture and work materials of any kind required for carrying out that purpose on
the adjacent land; and
(d) demolish, destroy or remove any plant, machinery, equipment, goods or buildings
constructed, placed or erected on the adjacent land under paragraph (c) .
(11)  A person authorized to enter on adjacent land under subsection (2) (a) or (b) must not exercise the
power specified in subsection (10) (c) (ii) in respect of any stone or slate quarry, brickfield or other place
commonly worked or used for getting materials for the purpose of sale or disposal.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 50 penalty units.
(12)  On the gazettal of a notice of acquisition in relation to required land or, if such a notice of
acquisition is gazetted and the acquiring authority is a promoter who has not complied with section 17 ,
on the deposit of the amount of money specified by the Valuer-General under that section with the
Treasurer, an authorization which was given under subsection (2) (a) and was still in effect immediately
before that gazettal or that deposit continues in force and is to be treated as if –
(a) it had been given under subsection (2) (b) ; and
(b) the acquiring authority had given notice under subsection (7) ; and
(c) the acquiring authority had entered, remained on or used the land in accordance with
subsection (8) .
57.   Rent for occupation
(1)  Where, pursuant to section 54 , 54A or 56 , land is entered on and occupied on behalf of an
acquiring authority, the authority must pay to the owner or occupier of the land, as the case requires, a
rent for the occupation of the land.
(2)  The amount of rent payable and the times of its payment are as agreed between the acquiring
authority and the owner or occupier of the land.
(3)  If an acquiring authority and an owner or occupier of land cannot agree on the amount of rent
payable or the times of its payment, the authority must apply to the Court for a determination of the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
39 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
matter.
(4)  Nothing in this section takes away the right of a person to compensation for damage sustained by
reason of the exercise of any power under this Part by an acquiring authority or a person authorized
pursuant to section 54 , 54A or 56 .
58.   Fencing of adjoining land
(1)  Where–
(a) an acquiring authority or a person authorized by an acquiring authority enters on, or into
possession of, any land taken or being taken under this Act; and
(b) the owner or former owner of that land owns other land adjoining that land; and
(c) it is necessary for the protection of that owner's or former owner's property that that land
should be fenced where it is contiguous with that other land–
the authority or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the proponent of that project must erect a
fence that provides that protection.
(2)  If an acquiring authority or, in the case of a major infrastructure project, the proponent of that project
and an owner of land cannot agree in relation to–
(a) the necessity for a fence; or
(b) the type or length of fence necessary–
the acquiring authority or the proponent, as the case may be, must apply to the Court for a determination
of the matter.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
40 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 7 - Proceedings Before the Court or Arbitrator
Division 1 - Procedure and powers of the Court, arbitrator and Special
Arbitrator
59.   Procedure and powers of the Court
(1)  Except where expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of the Supreme Court Civil Procedure
Act 1932 and the relevant Supreme Court Rules apply to proceedings brought before the Court under
this Act.
(2)  In proceedings brought before the Court under this Act, the Court may hear and determine the matter
to which the proceedings relate.
(3)  In proceedings brought before the Court on the application of an acquiring authority under section
65 (3) , the Court may order that any purchase-money or compensation is to be applied in any one or
more of the following ways:
(a) in the discharge of a debt or encumbrance affecting the subject land or affecting other land
settled with it on or for the same or like uses, trusts and purposes;
(b) in the purchase of other land or authorized securities to be conveyed or settled on or towards
the like uses, trusts and purposes as the subject land;
(c) in removing or replacing any buildings or substituting others in their stead as the Court
directs;
(d) in payment to a person absolutely entitled to the purchase-money or compensation or to such
other person, and on such conditions, as the Court directs;
(e) in such other manner as the Court directs.
(4)  Subject to section 62 , a determination made under this section is final and binding on all persons to
whom it relates.
60.   Costs
(1)  The costs of, and incidental to, any arbitration or proceedings before the Court under this Act are in
the discretion of the arbitrator or the Court.
(2)  In exercising a discretion to award costs under subsection (1) , the Court or arbitrator must take into
consideration –
(a) where the subject matter of the proceedings or arbitration relates to the amount of
compensation payable, the amount of compensation awarded as compared with the amount (if
any) offered by the acquiring authority; and
(b) the extent to which the proceedings or arbitration has arisen from, or been affected by –
(i) unreasonable conduct on the part of the claimant or the acquiring authority; or
(ii) the failure of the claimant to give adequate particulars of the claim or supply
supporting material when required to do so; or
(iii) an excessive claim by the claimant; or
(iv) an unduly depressed offer by the acquiring authority.
(3)  In relation to the costs referred to in subsection (1) , a legal practitioner is entitled to charge, and is
allowed, the fees set forth in the scales of fees in the relevant Supreme Court Rules, and the costs are
taxable by the taxing officer of the Supreme Court in accordance with the provisions for the taxation of
costs contained in those Rules.
(4)  In awarding costs under this section, the Court or an arbitrator may, either of its, his or her own
motion or on the application of any party, order that the costs be taxed on any of the scales of fees set
forth in the relevant Supreme Court Rules.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
41 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5)  A party who is dissatisfied with a certificate or allocatur of the taxing officer may, within 14 days
after the date of the certificate or allocatur or such other time as may be allowed by the taxing officer at
the time of signing the certificate or allocatur, apply to the Court for an order to review the taxation of
any of the costs to which the certificate or allocatur relates.
61.   Procedure relating to review of costs
Where an application is made to the Court under section 48 or 60 for an order to review the taxation of
costs, the review of the taxation of costs is to occur in accordance with the relevant Supreme Court
Rules.
Division 2 - Appeals
62.   Appeals
(1)  A party to an arbitration by a Special Arbitrator may, within 30 days after the determination is made,
appeal on a question of law arising out of the arbitration to the Court.
(2)  A party to proceedings determined under section 59 may, within 30 days after the determination is
made, appeal on a question of law arising out of the proceedings to the Full Court of the Supreme Court.
(3)  An appeal under this section –
(a) is to be made in accordance with the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932 and the Rules
of Court ; and
(b) is to be dealt with by way of rehearing.
(4)  The decision of the Full Court of the Supreme Court or a judge sitting in chambers with respect to an
appeal under this section is final.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
42 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 8 - Persons Under Disability and Limited Owners
63.   Power of persons under disability to sell
(1)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law, agreement or document, a person who has
possession of, or is entitled to, land may sell the land to an acquiring authority.
(2)  Without limiting its generality, the expression person in subsection (1) includes –
(a) a tenant for life; and
(b) a guardian; and
(c) an administrator appointed under the Guardianship and Administration Act 1995 ; and
(d) the administrator of a convict's property; and
(e) a trustee; and
(f) an executor or administrator; and
(g) a person who is for the time being entitled to the receipt of the rents and profits of land –
(i) in possession; or
(ii) subject to a lease for life, for lives and years, for years or for a less interest.
64.   Extent of power of persons under disability to sell
(1)  The power to sell land pursuant to section 65 may be exercised –
(a) by a person, not only on behalf of the person and on behalf of the person's personal
representatives, successors in title, or persons beneficially entitled under the person's will or on
the person's intestacy, but also on behalf of every person who is entitled in reversion, remainder
or expectancy after the person and in defeasance of the estate of every person who is so entitled;
and
(b) by a guardian on behalf of a ward to the same extent as the ward could exercise that power if
the ward were not under a disability; and
(c) by the administrator of a convict's property on behalf of the convict to the same extent as the
convict could exercise that power if he or she were not a convict; and
(d) by trustees, executors or administrators on behalf of their beneficiaries (whether persons
under a disability or not) to the same extent as the beneficiaries could exercise that power if they
were not under a disability.
(2)  Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to a lessee for life, for lives and years, for years or for a less
interest.
(3)  Subject to subsection (4) , the powers conferred by section 63 on an administrator referred to in
section 63(2)(c)  –
(a) are not to be exercised without the authority of the Tasmanian Civil and Administrative
Tribunal given under section 56 of the Guardianship and Administration Act 1995 ; and
(b) are to be exercised subject to any conditions or restrictions made by the Tribunal under that
section.
(4)  The Public Trustee Act 1930 has effect for the purposes of the Guardianship and Administration Act
1995 as if the powers conferred by section 63 on an administrator referred to in subsection (2)(c) of that
section were included in the powers specified in section 32(1)(a) of the Public Trustee Act 1930 .
65.   Application of purchase-money or compensation where parties only entitled to sell because of this
Part
(1)  Where land is acquired from a person who, except for this Part, would not be entitled to sell the
land, the purchase-money or compensation for the land is to be, with the consent of all interested parties,
paid to a trustee subject to the trusts declared in the deed of trust.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
43 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2)  Where a person–
(a) is an infant or a person in respect of whose estate an administrator has been appointed under
the Guardianship and Administration Act 1995 ; and
(b) is interested in, or entitled to receive, any purchase-money or compensation under this Act–
the person's consent to any application or disposition of the purchase-money or compensation may be
given by the person's guardian or that administrator on the person's behalf or the purchase-money or
compensation may be paid to that guardian or administrator.
(3)  Where all the interested parties referred to in subsection (1) do not consent to the payment of
purchase-money or compensation to a trustee, the acquiring authority must apply to the Court for a
determination in relation to the application of the purchase-money or compensation.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
44 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 9 - Miscellaneous
66.   Public Trustee to represent unascertained owner
(1AA)  A reference to an address of a person includes an electronic address that has been indicated by
the person, in electronic or other correspondence to the acquiring authority or the Public Trustee, to be
the electronic address to which a notice or other document may be served or given electronically,
whether or not the person has consented to the serving on the person, at that address, of any notices, or
such notices, under this Act.
(1)  If an acquiring authority is unable to ascertain the existence or address, or the existence and address,
of an owner of subject land, the authority must –
(a) serve on the Public Trustee any notice in respect of that land that it is required to serve on an
owner; and
(b) where the notice served on the Public Trustee is a notice to treat –
(i) publish a copy of the notice in a daily newspaper circulating generally in the city or
other municipality in which that land is situated; and
(ii) affix a copy of the notice in a prominent place on that land.
(2)  On being served with a notice under subsection (1) , the Public Trustee must take all reasonable
steps to discover the existence or address, or the existence and address, of any owner of the subject land.
(3)  If a notice has been served on the Public Trustee under subsection (1) , the Public Trustee, until such
time as the Public Trustee has discovered the existence or address, or the existence and address, of an
owner of the subject land –
(a) is to be treated as the owner to which the notice relates; and
(b) may take any action in respect of the subject land which the owner, if known and available,
might have taken.
(4)  If the Public Trustee discovers the existence or address, or the existence and address, of an owner of
subject land, the Public Trustee must –
(a) notify the acquiring authority; and
(b) provide the owner with a copy of the notice to treat and the other notices and particulars the
Public Trustee considers appropriate; and
(c) unless authorized by that owner to continue to act for the owner, cease acting on behalf of that
owner.
(5)  A notice served on the Public Trustee under subsection (1) is taken to have been served on an owner
referred to in that subsection.
(6)  A notice referred to in subsection (4) may be provided to an owner electronically.
67.   Apportionment of charges and encumbrances where only part of land taken
(1)  Where a part only of land that is subject to an encumbrance is taken, the apportionment of the
encumbrance is as agreed on between the party entitled to the encumbrance, the owner of the land and
the acquiring authority.
(2)  Where an apportionment of an encumbrance cannot be agreed on as provided in subsection (1) , the
acquiring authority must apply to the Court for a determination of the apportionment.
68.   Apportionment of rent where part of leased land taken
(1)  If a part of any land comprised in a lease is taken, the rent payable in respect of the land comprised
in the lease is apportioned between the part taken and the part not taken.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the apportionment is as agreed between the lessor, the lessee and
the acquiring authority.
(3)  Where an apportionment of rent cannot be agreed on as provided in subsection (2) , the acquiring
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
45 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
authority must apply to the Court for a determination of the apportionment.
(4)  After the settlement of an apportionment–
(a) as to all future accruing rent, the lessee is liable only to the rent apportioned in respect of the
part of the land not taken; and
(b) the lessor has, as against the part of the land not taken, and as against the lessee, the same
rights and remedies for the rent so apportioned as he or she had, before the apportionment, for the
whole rent; and
(c) all covenants, conditions and agreements in the lease (except as to the amount of rent) remain
in force in relation to the part of the land not taken.
69.   Offences
(1)  A person must not obstruct, hinder, delay, threaten or assault a person who is –
(a) authorized to enter on land pursuant to section 54 , 54A , 55 or 56 ; and
(b) acting in accordance with that section.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
(2)  A person must not incite another person to obstruct, hinder, delay, threaten or assault a person who is
–
(a) authorized to enter on land pursuant to section 54 , 54A , 55 or 56 ; and
(b) acting in accordance with that section.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
(3)  A person must not –
(a) refuse to give up possession of land acquired under this Act; or
(b) hinder the taking of possession of land acquired under this Act by an acquiring authority or
any person authorized by the authority; or
(c) refuse to permit an acquiring authority or a person authorized by the authority to enter on land
in accordance with this Act.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 5 penalty units and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not
exceeding 5 penalty units for each day during which the offence continues.
(4)  A police officer may arrest, without warrant, a person who the police officer reasonably believes to
have contravened subsection (1) .
70.   Overlooked estates
(1)  In this section, prescribed land means land which –
(a) an acquiring authority believed it had taken; and
(b) the authority has failed to take, through mistake or inadvertance; and
(c) the authority requires permanently for an authorized purpose; and
(d) the authority could acquire under this Act or could have acquired under a corresponding
previous enactment at the time at which it entered into possession of the land.
(2)  Subject to subsection (8) , an acquiring authority may remain in undisturbed possession of
prescribed land.
(3)  If a person notifies an acquiring authority, in writing, that the person claims an estate in land which
the person believes to be prescribed land, the authority must, within a period of 30 days after receiving
that notification, notify the person by notice in writing that it –
(a) admits that the land is prescribed land; or
(b) rejects that the land is prescribed land.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
46 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4)  If an acquiring authority notifies a person that it rejects that land is prescribed land, or fails to
provide the person with a notice referred to in subsection (2) within the period specified in that
subsection, the person may apply to the Court for a determination as to whether the land is prescribed
land within –
(a) 30 days after receiving the notice or the expiration of that period, as the case may be; or
(b) a period determined under section 78 .
(5)  If a person who may apply to the Court under subsection (4) for a determination as to whether land
is prescribed land does not make that application in accordance with that subsection, the person is taken
not to have an estate in the land.
(6)  If an acquiring authority admits, or it is determined by the Court, that land is prescribed land –
(a) the person claiming an estate in the prescribed land is taken to have been served with a notice
to treat on the day on which the acquiring authority first entered into possession of the land; and
(b) the acquiring authority must, within a period of 60 days after the day on which that admission
or determination is made –
(i) take all reasonable steps to ascertain all owners of the land and their addresses; and
(ii) cause a notice of acquisition in a form approved by the Secretary to be published in
the Gazette.
(7)  Section 18 (1) and (2) does not apply in relation to a notice of acquisition gazetted under subsection
(6) .
(8)  If an acquiring authority fails to gazette a notice of acquisition in relation to land in accordance with
subsection (6) , the estates of the owners of that land prevail over any estate the authority may have in
the land.
(9)  After the expiration of a period of 12 years commencing on the day on which an acquiring authority
first entered into possession of prescribed land –
(a) a person is not entitled to notify the authority under subsection (3) that the person claims an
estate in the land; and
(b) a person is not entitled to compensation under this Act in relation to the land unless that or
another person has so notified the authority that that person claims an estate in the land before the
expiration of that period.
(10)  Prescribed land vests in an acquiring authority on the expiration of the period of 12 years specified
in subsection (9) unless a person has notified the authority under subsection (3) that the person claims an
estate in the land.
71.   Writs to enforce entry and possession of land
(1)  An acquiring authority may apply to the Court for the issue of a writ where –
(a) a person who is in possession of land taken under this Act refuses to give up possession of the
land or hinders the acquiring authority or any person authorized by the authority from taking
possession of the land; or
(b) a person who is in occupation of land refuses to permit the acquiring authority or a person
authorized by the authority to enter on the land.
(2)  On the receipt of an application under subsection (1) , the Court may issue a writ authorizing the
Sheriff to deliver possession of land to, or to enforce the entry upon land for, an acquiring authority or a
person authorized by an acquiring authority.
72.   Removal of goods, &c., from acquired land
If an owner from whom an acquiring authority has taken land refuses to remove from that land any
goods or animals owned by, or in the custody of, the owner, the authority may apply to the Court for an
order requiring the owner to remove those goods or animals from the land.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
47 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
73.   Disposal of land taken
(1)  In this section, relevant period means the period of 7 years commencing on the day on which –
(a) the notice of acquisition relating to the land proposed to be sold was published in the Gazette
as provided in section 18 or 70 ; or
(b) the notification of acquisition relating to that land was registered as provided in section 18 of
the Lands Resumption Act 1957 or the notice of acquisition relating to it was registered as
provided in section 17 of the Public Authorities' Land Acquisition Act 1949 .
(2)  Subject to this section, if land that has been taken by an acquiring authority, other than the Crown,
under this Act or a corresponding previous enactment is no longer required by the authority for any
purpose, the authority –
(a) may sell the land, if authorized to do so by its special Act –
(i) within the period prescribed by that Act; or
(ii) where no period is so prescribed, within the relevant period; or
(b) if not so authorized to sell the land, may sell it, subject to any requirements imposed by any
other Act.
(3)  Where –
(a) the Minister proposes to sell land in pursuance of subsection (2) before the relevant period
has elapsed; or
(b) an acquiring authority proposes to sell land in accordance with subsection (2) (a) ; or
(c) an acquiring authority proposes to sell land in pursuance of subsection (2) (b) before the
relevant period has elapsed –
the Minister or authority shall first offer, by notice in writing, to sell the land –
(d) where the land was severed from other land by its acquisition under this Act, to the present
owner of the fee simple of that other land; or
(e) where the land was not so severed and if it is practicable to do so, to the person from whom
the fee simple estate in the land was acquired under this Act or to that person's personal
representatives or another person entitled to that person's estate under the law of succession.
(4)  For the purposes of subsection (3) –
(a) a person who is a mortgagee under a mortgage in respect of land that is not subject to the
Land Titles Act 1980 and who is not in possession of the land, is taken not to have an estate in
fee simple in the land; and
(b) a person who is a mortgagor under a mortgage in respect of such land and who is in
possession of the land is taken to have an estate in fee simple in the land.
(5)  A person who receives a notice referred to in subsection (3) offering land for sale may, within the
period of 60 days after the service of the notice or the period determined under section 78 , accept that
offer in writing.
(6)  A person who accepts an offer in accordance with subsection (5) may make that acceptance subject
to agreement on the price or other consideration.
(7)  If the acquiring authority and a person who has accepted an offer subject to agreement on the price
or other consideration cannot agree on that price or other consideration within a period of 30 days after
so accepting the offer, the person may, in writing delivered to the Minister or authority –
(a) reject the offer; or
(b) elect to have the price or other consideration determined in the manner specified in this Act
for determining disputed claims for compensation.
(8)  If a person –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
48 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) rejects an offer under subsection (7) (a) ; or
(b) fails to make an election under subsection (7) (b) within the period specified in that
subsection; or
(c) fails to accept an offer within the period specified in subsection (5) –
the acquiring authority may dispose of the land to which the offer relates to any other person.
(9)  If the acquiring authority were offering to sell land, a person who is or would be able, for the time
being, to exercise a right of pre-emption conferred by subsection (3) in respect of land has power at any
time to waive that right of pre-emption in respect of all, or part of, the land.
(10)  A grant or sale of land by the Crown under the Crown Lands Act 1976 is not to be impeached on
the ground that a condition precedent to the grant or sale contained in this section has not been
performed.
(11)  A person who is deprived of an estate by virtue of subsection (10) is entitled to compensation from
the Crown and the amount of compensation is the amount agreed between the Crown and the person.
(12)  If the amount of compensation cannot be agreed on under subsection (11) , compensation is to be
determined in the same manner as a disputed claim for compensation.
74.   Resumption procedure
(1)  If the Crown has power to resume land by virtue of a right reserved in the grant of the land, the
Crown may give notice of resumption to the owner of the land.
(2)  A notice of resumption is to –
(a) specify the day on which re-entry will be made on behalf of the Crown; and
(b) have on it, or annexed to it, a plan of the land to be resumed.
(3)  A notice of resumption is to be served –
(a) on every owner of the land being resumed known to the Crown; or
(b) if the Crown does not know of any owner, or of an owner's address, on the Public Trustee.
(4)  The provisions of section 20 apply in respect of a notice of resumption as if it were a notice of
acquisition.
(5)  Where a notice of resumption has been given under this section –
(a) section 71 applies to the land as if it were land acquired under this Act and the Crown was an
acquiring authority; and
(b) section 72 applies to the removal from the land of goods or animals owned by, or in the
custody of, the person to whom the notice is given in the same manner as that section applies to
the removal of goods or animals from land acquired under this Act.
75.   Land acquired by Crown becomes Crown land reserve
(1)  On the acquisition of land by the Crown, the land acquired becomes land reserved to the Crown as a
public reserve under section 8 of the Crown Lands Act 1976 for the purpose for which the land was
acquired.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to land acquired for the purposes of the Forest Management Act 2013
or to land acquired under the Nature Conservation Act 2002 .
76.   Purchase of personal property
An acquiring authority may purchase the personal property of an owner of subject land if the personal
property is situated on the subject land.
77.   Limitation on proceedings
(1)  A person is not entitled to make a claim or otherwise institute any proceedings for compensation for
the taking of land after the expiration of 12 years commencing on the day the notice of acquisition of the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
49 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
land is gazetted.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of land in the process of being taken –
(a) immediately before the proclaimed day; and
(b) under the provisions of the Lands Clauses Act 1857 , the Public Authorities' Land Acquisition
Act 1949 or the Lands Resumption Act 1957 .
78.   Extension of time or period
(1)  A time or period prescribed in this Act as the time or period within which any act or thing is to be
done, or any proceedings are to be taken, may, before or within 14 days after the expiration of the time
or period so prescribed and on the application of an owner of subject land, a claimant or a former owner
of land acquired under this Act, be extended –
(a) by the agreement of the acquiring authority; or
(b) in default of agreement, by order of the Court made on the application of the acquiring
authority or the claimant.
(1A)  An acquiring authority may, by notice in writing to an owner of subject land, a claimant, or a
former owner of land, (the relevant person), extend a time or period referred to in subsection (1) ,
without an agreement between the acquiring authority and the relevant person, if the acquiring authority
has been –
(a) unable to contact the relevant person; or
(b) unable to obtain the agreement of the relevant person to an extension of the time or period.
(2)  An application referred to in subsection (1) (b) is to be made within 14 days after the day on which
the acquiring authority and claimant have determined that they cannot agree in relation to an extension
of time.
(3)  Where an agreement or order is made for the extension of time or a period within which any act or
thing is to be done or any proceedings are to be taken, the act or thing may be done, or the proceedings
may be taken, within that extended time or period specified in the agreement or order.
(4)  This section does not apply in relation to the period specified in section 77 (1) .
79.   Delegation of powers by Minister, Secretary and acquiring authorities other than the Crown
(1)  The Minister may, in writing, delegate any of the Minister's functions or powers under this Act,
other than this power of delegation.
(2)  The Secretary may, in writing, delegate any of his or her functions or powers under this Act, other
than this power of delegation.
(3)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Act by which it is established or under which it
conducts its operations, an acquiring authority other than the Crown may, if the Minister approves, in
writing, delegate to the Secretary or to a person employed in the Department any of its functions or
powers under this Act, other than this power of delegation.
80.   Signing of notices and other documents
(1)  Where an acquiring authority may or is required to provide to, or serve on, any person a notice or
other document under this Act, that notice or document is to be signed by the clerk of the authority or by
the Minister, as the case requires.
(2)  If a notice or other document under this Act is served on a person electronically under section 81 ,
the signature of a person (including the clerk of the authority or the Minister) on a notice or other
document under this Act may be, but is not required to be, an electronic signature.
(3)  If a form approved for the purposes of this Act by the Secretary provides for the signature of a
person, the signature of the person may be an electronic signature.
81.   Service of notices and other documents
(1)  A notice or other document is effectively served under this Act if –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
50 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) in the case of a natural person, it is –
(i) given to the person; or
(ii) left at, or sent by post to, the person's postal or residential address or place or address
of business or employment last known to the person required by this Act to serve the
notice or other document; or
(iia) sent electronically to, and received at, an electronic address that has been indicated
by the person, in electronic or other correspondence to the person sending or giving the
notice or other document, to be the electronic address to which a notice, or other
document, may be served, or given, electronically, whether or not the person has
consented to the sending or giving of any notices, or such notices, under this Act, to that
address; or
(iii) sent by way of facsimile to the person's facsimile number; and
(b) in the case of any other person, it is –
(i) left at, or sent by post to, the person's principal or registered office or principal place of
business; or
(ia) sent electronically to, and received at, an electronic address that has been indicated by
the person, in electronic or other correspondence to the person sending or giving the
notice or other document, to be the electronic address to which a notice, or other
document, may be served, or given, electronically, whether or not the person has
consented to the sending or giving of any notices, or such notices, under this Act, to that
address; or
(ii) sent by way of facsimile to the person's facsimile number.
(2)  A notice or other document required or permitted by this Act to be served on or given to –
(a) the Crown or the Minister, may be served or given by –
(i) leaving it at, or sending it by post to, the office of the Secretary; or
(ia) subject to subsection (4) , sending it to an electronic address that is indicated, on
correspondence from the Secretary to the person serving or giving the notice or other
document, to be the address of the Secretary to which a notice, or other document, under
this Act to the Crown or the Minister, may be served, or given, electronically; or
(ii) sending it by way of facsimile to the Secretary at that office; or
(b) an acquiring authority other than the Crown, may be served or given to the authority by –
(i) leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the office of the authority or its principal
office if there are more offices than one; or
(ii) serving it on or giving it to, or sending it by post to, the clerk or the authority's legal
practitioner; or
(iia) subject to subsection (4) , sending it to an electronic address that has been indicated,
in correspondence sent by the acquiring authority to the person serving or giving the
notice or other document, to be the address of the acquiring authority to which a notice,
or other document, under this Act, to the acquiring authority is to be served, or given,
electronically; or
(iii) sending it by way of facsimile to that office, the clerk or the authority's legal
practitioner.
(3)  A notice or other document served under this Act by sending it by post is served at the time when
the letter is deposited in a post box or at a post office for delivery by post.
(4)  Subsection (2)(a)(ia) and subsection (2)(b)(iia) do not apply in relation to a notice under
section 7G(6) or section 25(1)
(5)  A notice or other document served, given or provided under this Act by sending it electronically to
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
51 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
an electronic address is served, given or provided, respectively, at the time at which it reaches the
electronic address and is capable of being read at that address.
82.   Rules of Court
(1)  Rules may be made under the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932 for the purpose of regulating
–
(a) the manner of making an application to the Court under this Act; and
(b) proceedings brought in or before the Court under this Act.
(2)  Rules made pursuant to subsection (1) may prescribe all matters necessary or convenient to be
prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.
(3)  Rules are not to be made pursuant to subsection (1) if those rules are inconsistent with any
regulations made under this Act.
83.   Regulations
(1)  The Governor may make regulations for the purposes of this Act.
(2)  The regulations may prescribe procedures and give to the Court discretion in relation to the adoption
of procedures.
(3)  The regulations may –
(a) prescribe the manner of nomination or selection of a Special Arbitrator for the purposes of
any particular arbitration; and
(b) prescribe the matters in respect of which a Special Arbitrator may or must not arbitrate; and
(c) regulate the proceedings before a Special Arbitrator either specifically or by reference to the
Commercial Arbitration Act 2011 , and any regulations made under that Act, as in force from
time to time; and
(d) provide for the recovery of any costs awarded by a Special Arbitrator.
(4)  The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or transitional nature and such provisions may
take effect on the proclaimed day or on a later day.
(5)  Regulations may be made so as to apply differently according to matters, limitations or restrictions,
whether as to time, circumstance or otherwise, specified in the regulations.
(6)  The regulations may –
(a) provide that a contravention of, or a failure to comply with, any of the regulations is an
offence; and
(b) in respect of such an offence, provide for the imposition of a fine not exceeding 25 penalty
units and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding 2 penalty units for each
day during which the offence continues.
84.   Repeals
The Acts specified in Schedule 1 are repealed.
85.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
86.   Administration of Act
Until provision is made in relation to this Act by order under section 4 of the Administrative
Arrangements Act 1990 –
(a) the administration of this Act is assigned to the Minister for Environment and Land
Management; and
(b) the Department responsible to that Minister in relation to the administration of this Act is the
Department of Environment and Land Management.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
52 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1 - Acts Repealed
Section 84
Lands Clauses Act 1857 (21 Vict. No. 11)
Lands Resumption Act 1957 (No. 88 of 1957)
Public Authorities' Land Acquisition Act 1949 (No. 22 of 1949)
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
53 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 2
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
54 of 54
4/28/25, 21:16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
