 
 
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
Minimum housing standards – rooming accommodation 
Minimum housing standards came into effect for new tenancies (including renewed tenancy agreements) from  
1 September 2023 and for all remaining tenancies from 1 September 2024. The property must meet minimum housing 
standards when the tenant moves in and throughout the tenancy agreement. These new standards apply to all types of 
tenancies, including general tenancies, moveable dwellings, and rooming accommodation agreements.   
This fact sheet will help providers, agents and residents understand and prepare for the upcoming changes around 
minimum housing standards for rooming accommodation in Queensland.  
Overview of minimum housing standards  
Minimum housing standards aim to ensure all Queensland rental properties are safe, secure and reasonably functional. 
The new standards complement existing legislation which states that a property must be fit to live in, in good repair and 
compliant with health and safety laws. To meet minimum housing standards, the rental property will need to meet the 
criteria outlined below.  
Safety and security  
The property must:   
• 
be weatherproof and structurally sound:   
o 
the roofing or windows must prevent water entering the premises when it rains  
o 
the floor, walls, ceiling, roof and any decks or stairs must not be likely to collapse because of a rot, 
defect, or significant dampness   
• 
be in good repair, with fixtures and fittings (such as electrical appliances) that are not likely to cause injury 
through normal use  
• 
have functioning locks or latches on all external doors and windows that can be reached from outside the 
premises without a ladder  
• 
be free from vermin, damp, and mould (this does not include cases where vermin, damp or mould has been 
caused by the resident) 
• 
have privacy coverings for windows in all rooms where the resident could reasonably expect privacy, such as 
bedrooms. Privacy coverings: 
o 
for windows include blinds curtains, tinting and glass frosting   
o 
do not apply if the line of sight of someone outside the property and someone inside the property  
is blocked, for example if the window is obstructed by a fence, a hedge, tree, or other feature of  
the property.   
Reasonable functionality  
The property must:  
• 
have adequate plumbing and drainage for the number of people occupying the premises   
• 
be connected to a water supply service or other infrastructure that supplies hot and cold water suitable  
for drinking  
• 
provide privacy in bathroom areas   
• 
have toilets that are all flushable and refillable, and connected to a sewer, septic tank or other waste  
disposal system 
• 
have a functioning cooktop, if a kitchen is provided  
• 
include the necessary fixtures for a functional laundry, such as tap fixtures and adequate plumbing, if laundry 
facilities are provided. The laundry does not have to include a washing machine or other white goods as these 
may be provided by the resident.  
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
Options when a property does not meet minimum housing standards  
There are different options available to the resident depending on if the property fails to meet minimum housing standards 
when they first move into the property or during the tenancy.  
The provider/agent needs to ensure the premises and inclusions comply with prescribed minimum standards at the start 
of the tenancy and throughout the agreement. The provider/agent is responsible for paying for repairs unless the issue 
has been caused by the actions of the resident.  
The resident is responsible for contacting the provider/agent as soon as they become aware of any repairs which need to 
be made to the rental property. 
The provider/agent and the resident should speak with one another and try to resolve any issues which occur during a 
tenancy. Self-resolution is often the quickest and easiest way to revolve tenancy issues. 
Option 1: Resident moves out of the property within the first seven days of occupancy   
New residents with a rooming accommodation agreement will have the option to end a tenancy within the first seven days 
of occupying a room if they believe it does not meet minimum housing standards. This builds on legislation, which allows 
residents to end a tenancy within the first seven days of living at the property if it is not fit to live in, unsafe, or not in  
good repair.     
If the resident chooses this option, they will need to issue the provider/agent with a Notice of intention to leave (Form R13) 
on the grounds that the rental does not meet minimum housing standards, giving at least two days notice to end the 
tenancy for rooming accommodation agreement.    
If the provider/agent believes the property is in good repair and meets minimum housing standards, they may treat this as 
breaking the lease and seek compensation. If this occurs and the provider/agent and the resident cannot reach an 
agreement around compensation, either party can request free RTA dispute resolution.   
If the resident and the provider/agent still cannot reach an agreement, the party who requested dispute resolution can 
take the matter to Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal (QCAT), which has the authority to issue legally  
binding orders.    
Option 2: Resident applies for a QCAT termination order on the grounds of 
misrepresentation within the first three months of occupancy   
The resident can apply to QCAT to request a termination order on the grounds that the provider/agent gave false or 
misleading information about the condition of the premises or its inclusions. This is classified as a non-urgent tenancy 
dispute by QCAT, which means the matter must go free RTA dispute resolution before it goes to QCAT.     
To do this, the resident must apply for RTA dispute resolution within the first three months of living at the rental 
property. If dispute resolution is unsuccessful, the RTA will issue the resident with a Notice of unresolved dispute and the 
resident can make an application to QCAT for an order to terminate the tenancy.  
QCAT will give both the resident and the provider/agent an opportunity to present evidence before deciding if they will 
issue an order to terminate the tenancy. The resident must continue to pay rent while the matter is under dispute.  
Option 3: Resident requests routine repairs to the property   
The resident should speak to the provider/agent and try to come to an arrangement to organise repairs to ensure the 
property meets minimum housing standards.  
Under the Residential and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008, repairs to rooming accommodation are classified as 
routine repairs. If the provider/agent does not make repairs within a reasonable timeframe the resident can issue them 
with a Notice to remedy breach (Form R11) giving a minimum of five days to fix the issue.  
If the provider/agent fails to rectify the issue within the timeframe, the resident can lodge a request for free RTA dispute 
resolution via the Dispute Resolution Web Service or the Dispute resolution request (Form 16).  
If agreement cannot be reached, the resident can take the matter to QCAT and request for them to make an order. Repair 
orders do not apply to rooming accommodation. Instead, QCAT may make an order about a breach of the tenancy 
agreement. Outcomes may include ordering the provider or the resident to organise and pay for the repairs or 
compensate the other party.    
Find out more about the routine repairs process on the routine repairs webpage.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
If actions of a resident cause the property to fail to meet minimum housing standards 
Throughout the tenancy, the resident is responsible for keeping the rental property clean and for not intentionally 
damaging it. If the rental property fails to meet minimum housing standards because of issues caused by the actions of 
the resident, the provider/agent can issue the resident with a Notice to remedy breach (Form R11) and the resident may 
have to pay for the repairs.  
See the breach of the agreement webpage on the RTA website for more information.     
Accessing RTA forms 
The RTA’s forms can be obtained electronically or in person via:  
•  rta.qld.gov.au  •  1300 366 311 (Mon – Fri: 8:30am – 5:00pm)  •  Level 11, Midtown Centre, 150 Mary Street, Brisbane   
 
Other languages: You can access a free interpreter service by calling the RTA on 1300 366 311  
(Monday to Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm). 
 
Further information 
For more information contact the Residential Tenancies Authority. 
 
rta.qld.gov.au 
 
1300 366 311 
 
RTA Web Services 
 
Connect with us 
LinkedIn 
YouTube 
eNews 
Podcast 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer:  
This fact sheet is prepared for information only. The Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008  
is the primary source on the law and takes precedence over this information should there be any inconsistency  
between the Act and this fact sheet. 
v2 Aug24 
 
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
