INTERNATIONAL MONETARY AGREEMENTS 
AMENDMENT ACT 1978
No. 97 of 1978
Short title, 
&c.
Commence­
ment
Interpret­
ation
An Act relating to the International Monetary Fund and to the Inter­
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
BE IT ENACTED by the Queen, and the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, as follows:
PART I—PRELIMINARY
1 .  
(1) This Act may be cited as the International Monetary 
Agreements Amendment Act 1978.'
(2) The International Monetary Agreements Act 19472 is in this Act 
referred to as the Principal Act.
2. This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives 
the Royal Assent.1
PART II—AMENDMENTS OF THE PRINCIPAL ACT
3. Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following 
sub-section:
“(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears—
‘Bank’ means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development referred to in the Bank Agreement;
‘Bank Agreement’ means the Articles of Agreement of the In­
ternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
set out in Schedule 2, as amended in accordance with the 
resolution of the Board of Governors of that Bank set out 
in Schedule 3;
‘Fund’ means the International Monetary Fund referred to in 
the Fund Agreement;
‘Fund Agreement’ means the Articles of Agreement of the In­
ternational Monetary Fund set out in Schedule 1;
‘Reserve Bank’means the Reserve Bank of Australia;
‘special drawing rights’ means special drawing rights 
allocated by the Fund under Article XV of the Fund 
Agreement;
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
‘Special Drawing Rights Department’ means the Special 
Drawing Rights Department maintained by the Fund 
under the Fund Agreement;
‘value’, in relation to special drawing rights, means the 
amount that is the equivalent in the currency of Australia 
of the value of the rights as fixed under the Fund Agree­
ment.”; and
(b) by omitting from sub-section (2) “ section five B of this Act” 
and substituting “section 5B without charge to the Reserve 
Bank”.
4. 
After section 4 of the Principal Act the following section is 
inserted:
“ 4a. Participation by Australia in the Special Drawing Rights De- Participation 
partment is approved. ’ ’. 
sPe.cial
Γ 
r r  
Drawing
Rights
Department
ofFund
5. 
Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting “ , and for 
other assets,” after “currency”.
Reserve 
Bank to be 
depository
6. 
Section 5a of the Principal Act is repealed and the following sec­
tion substituted:
“ 5a. (1) The Treasurer may— 
Transfers to
and from
(a) give directions in writing to the Reserve Bank to accept special Reserve
drawing rights from the Commonwealth, the governments of f aencja°f 
other countries, the Fund or other institutions, authorities or Sawing 
persons; 
rights
(b) give directions in writing to the Reserve Bank to effect a transfer 
of special drawing rights to the Commonwealth, being direc­
tions that, subject to sub-section (2)—
(i) if the transfer is for the purpose of the discharge of an 
obligation of the Commonwealth to the Fund under Sec­
tion 8 of Article V, or Section 2 or 4 of Article XX, of the 
Fund Agreement—direct that the transfer be without 
charge to the Commonwealth or be in exchange for an 
amount equal to the value of the rights; or
(ii) in any other case—direct that the transfer be in exchange 
for an amount equal to the value of the rights; and
(c) give directions in writing to the Reserve Bank to effect a transfer 
of special drawing rights to the governments of other countries, 
the Fund or other institutions, authorities or persons, being di­
rections that the transfer be in exchange for an amount that is
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
the equivalent in the currency of Australia, or in any other cur­
rency, of the value of the rights as fixed under the Fund 
Agreement.
“ (2) The Treasurer shall, before giving directions to the Reserve 
Bank under sub-paragraph (1) (b) (i) to effect a transfer of special 
drawing rights to the Commonwealth, consult with the Reserve Bank on 
the question whether the transfer be without charge to the Common­
wealth or be in exchange for an amount equal to the value of the rights.
“ (3) W here-
(a) the Commonwealth proposes to transfer to the Fund a number 
of special drawing rights for the purpose of the discharge of an 
obligation of the Commonwealth to pay charges under Section 2 
of Article XX of the Fund Agreement in respect of a period; and
(b) the Commonwealth is entitled under that Article to receive from 
the Fund a number of special drawing rights by way of interest 
in respect of that period,
the number of special drawing rights that may be specified in directions 
given to the Reserve Bank under paragraph (1) (b) to effect a transfer of 
special drawing rights to the Commonwealth without charge to the 
Commonwealth for the purpose of the discharge of that obligation shall 
not exceed the number (if any) by which the number of special drawing 
rights referred to in paragraph (a) exceeds the number of special draw­
ing rights referred to in paragraph (b).
“(4) The power of the Treasurer under this section to give directions 
to the Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of special drawing rights to the 
Commonwealth is in addition to the power of the Treasurer under sec­
tion 5C to require the Reserve Bank to transfer special drawing rights to 
the Commonwealth, and the provisions of this section shall not be read 
as being in derogation of the provisions of section 5C.
“ (5) An instrument giving directions under sub-section (1) may 
contain such incidental or supplementary directions as the Treasurer 
thinks necessary.
“ (6) Amounts from time to time payable by the Commonwealth in 
exchange for special drawing rights transferred to it by the Reserve Bank 
under this section are payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, 
which is appropriated accordingly. ”.
Special 
drawing 
rights of 
Common­
wealth 
maybe 
transferred 
to Reserve 
Bank
7. 
Section 5B of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end 
thereof “without charge to the Reserve Bank or in exchange for an 
amount equal to the value of the rights”.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
8. Section 5D of the Principal Act is repealed. 
Repeal of
section 5d
9. Section 7 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from issue of 
sub-section (1) “ the Governor-General may authorize the issue of se- securities 
curities.” and substituting “ the Treasurer may, on behalf of Australia, 
execute and issue to the Fund or to the Bank, as the case may be, 
securities.”.
10. Section 8 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting Payment of 
1 ‘paragraph (c) or (d ) of section eight ’ ’ and substituting ‘ ‘ Section 8 ’ ’. 
charges
11. Section 8A of the Principal Act is repealed and the following sec­
tion substituted:
“ 8a . Where the Treasurer is satisfied that an amount should be paid Appropri- 
out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to enable Australia to carry out 
s°rsof 
its obligations as a participant in the Special Drawing Rights Depart- Epeciaf50 
ment, he may direct that that amount shall be paid out of the Con- Drawing 
solidated Revenue Fund, which is, to the necessary extent, hereby ap- Department 
propriated accordingly.”.
12. Section 9 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting “ as a dis- Payments
tribution of net income ’ ’. 
o^Bank "d
13. The heading immediately preceding the First Schedule to the Repeal of
Principal Act is repealed. 
heading
14. The First Schedule to the Principal Act is repealed and the First
Schedule set out in Schedule 1 to this Act is substituted. 
Schedule
15. The Fourth Schedule to the Principal Act is repealed.
Fourth
Schedule
16. The Principal Act is amended as set out in Schedule 2 to this Act. Formal
amendments
PART III—INCREASE OF QUOTA IN THE FUND AND 
ADDITIONAL SHARES OF CAPITAL STOCK OF THE BANK
17. In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears— 
interpret-
“ Bank” and “ Fund” have the same respective meanings as they 
have in the Principal Act as amended by this Act;
“ United States dollar” means a dollar in the currency of the United 
States of America of the weight and fineness that was in effect on 
1 July 1944.
18. 
The giving of consent by Australia to the increase of its quota in 
the Fund to 790,000,000 special drawing rights is approved.
Consent to 
increase of 
quota
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
Subscript» 
for capital 
stock of 
Bank
Appropri­
ation and 
issue of 
securities
19. (1) The Treasurer may, on behalf of Australia, make an 
agreement or agreements with the Bank providing for the purchase by 
Australia of 779 additional shares of the capital stock of the Bank at a 
price per share that is the equivalent of 100,000 United States dollars.
(2) Subject to the Principal Act as amended by this Act, an agree­
ment so made may contain such terms and conditions as the Treasurer 
determines.
20. (1) There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, 
which is appropriated accordingly, the moneys necessary for the purpose 
of making any payment to be made by Australia—
(a) by reason of the increase of its quota in the Fund referred to in 
section 18; or
(b) in pursuance of an agreement made under section 19.
(2) Section 7 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act applies to 
any payment referred to in sub-section (1) as it applies to payments 
under that Act as so amended.
SCHEDULE 1 
Section 14
SCHEDULE TO BE INSERTED IN THE PRINCIPAL ACT
SCHEDULE 1 
Section 3(1)
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
The Governments on whose behalf the present Agreement is signed agree as follows:
INTRODUCTORY ARTICLE
(i) The International Monetary Fund is established and shall operate in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement as originally adopted and subsequently amended.
(ii) To enable the Fund to conduct its operations and transactions, the Fund shall main­
tain a General Department and a Special Drawing Rights Department. Membership 
in the Fund shall give the right to participation in the Special Drawing Rights 
Department.
(iii) Operations and transactions authorized by this Agreement shall be conducted 
through the General Department, consisting in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement of the General Resources Account, the Special Disbursement Account, 
and the Investment Account; except that operations and transactions involving 
special drawing rights shall be conducted through the Special Drawing Rights 
Department.
ARTICLE I 
PURPOSES
The purposes of the International Monetary Fund are:
(i) To promote international monetary cooperation through a permanent institution 
which provides the machinery for consultation and collaboration on international 
monetary problems.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
(ii) To facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade, and to con­
tribute thereby to the promotion and maintenance of high levels of employment and 
real income and to the development of the productive resources of all members as pri­
mary objectives of economic policy.
(iii) To promote exchange stability, to maintain orderly exchange arrangements among 
members, and to avoid competitive exchange depreciation. 
·
(iv) To assist in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in respect of cur­
rent transactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restric­
tions which hamper the growth of world trade.
(v) To give confidence to members by making the general resources of the Fund tempor­
arily available to them under adequate safeguards, thus providing them with oppor­
tunity to correct maladjustments in their balance of payments without resorting to 
measures destructive of national or international prosperity.
(vi) In accordance with the above, to shorten the duration and lessen the degree of dis­
equilibrium in the international balances of payments of members.
The Fund shall be guided in all its policies and decisions by the purposes set forth in this 
Article.
ARTICLE II 
MEMBERSHIP
Section 1. Original members
The original members of the Fund shall be those of the countries represented at the United 
Nations Monetary and Financial Conference whose governments accept membership before 
December 31, 1945.
Section 2. Other members
Membership shall be open to other countries at such times and in accordance with such 
terms as may be prescribed by the Board of Governors. These terms, including the terms for 
subscriptions, shall be based on principles consistent with those applied to other countries that 
are already members.
ARTICLE III
QUOTAS AND SUBSCRIPTIONS 
Section 1. Quotas andpayment o f subscriptions
Each member shall be assigned a quota expressed in special drawing rights. The quotas of 
the members represented at the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference which 
accept membership before December 31, 1945 shall be those set forth in Schedule A. The 
quotas of other members shall be determined by the Board of Governors. The subscription of 
each member shall be equal to its quota and shall be paid in full to the Fund at the appropriate 
depository.
Section 2. Adjustment o f quotas
(а) The Board of Governors shall at intervals of not more than five years conduct a general 
review, and if it deems it appropriate propose an adjustment, of the quotas of the members. It 
may also, if it thinks fit, consider at any other time the adjustment of any particular quota at 
the request of the member concerned.
(б) The Fund may at any time propose an increase in the quotas of those members of the 
Fund that were members on August 31, 1975 in proportion to their quotas on that date in a 
cumulative amount not in excess of amounts transferred under Article V, Section 12 (J) (i) 
and (j) from the Special Disbursement Account to the General Resources Account.
(c) An eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power shall be required for any 
change in quotas.
(d) The quota of a member shall not be changed until the member has consented and 
until payment has been made unless payment is deemed to have been made in accordance 
with Section 3 (6) of this Article.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 3. Payments when quotas are changed
(a) Each member which consents to an increase in its quota under Section 2 (a) of this 
Article shall, within a period determined by the Fund, pay to the Fund twenty-five percent of 
the increase in special drawing rights, but the Board of Governors may prescribe that this pay­
ment may be made, on the same basis for all members, in whole or in part in the currencies of 
other members specified, with their concurrence, by the Fund, or in the member’s own cur­
rency. A non-participant shall pay in the currencies of other members specified by the Fund, 
with their concurrence, a proportion of the increase corresponding to the proportion to be paid 
in special drawing rights by participants. The balance of the increase shall be paid by the 
member in its own currency. The Fund’s holdings of a member’s currency shall not be 
increased above the level at which they would be subject to charges under Article V, Section 8
(b) (ii), as a result of payments by other members under this provision.
(b) Each member which consents to an increase in its quota under Section 2 (6) of this 
Article shall be deemed to have paid to the Fund an amount of subscription equal to such 
increase.
(c) If a member consents to a reduction in its quota, the Fund shall, within sixty days, pay 
to the member an amount equal to the reduction. The payment shall be made in the member’s 
currency and in such amount of special drawing rights or the currencies of other members 
specified, with their concurrence, by the Fund as is necessary to prevent the reduction of the 
Fund’s holdings of the currency below the new quota, provided that in exceptional circum­
stances the Fund may reduce its holdings of the currency below the new quota by payment to 
the member in its own currency.
(d) A seventy percent majority of the total voting power shall be required for any decision 
under (a) above, except for the determination of a period and the specification of currencies 
under that provision.
Section 4. Substitution o f securities for currency
The Fund shall accept from any member, in place of any part of the member’s currency in 
the General Resources Account which in the judgment of the Fund is not needed for its oper­
ations and transactions, notes or similar obligations issued by the member or the depository 
designated by the member under Article XIII, Section 2, which shall be non-negotiable, non­
interest bearing and payable at their face value on demand by crediting the account of the 
Fund in the designated depository. This Section shall apply not only to currency subscribed by 
members but also to any currency otherwise due to, or acquired by, the Fund and to be placed 
in the General Resources Account.
ARTICLE IV
OBLIGATIONS REGARDING EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS 
Section 1. General obligations of members
Recognizing that the essential purpose of the international monetary system is to provide a 
framework that facilitates the exchange of goods, services, and capital among countries, and 
that sustains sound economic growth, and that a principal objective is the continuing develop­
ment of the orderly underlying conditions that are necessary for financial and economic stab­
ility, each member undertakes to collaborate with the Fund and other members to assure 
orderly exchange arrangements and to promote a stable system of exchange rates. In particu­
lar, each member shall:
(i) endeavour to direct its economic and financial policies toward the objective of foster­
ing orderly economic growth with reasonable price stability, with due regard to its 
circumstances;
(ii) seek to promote stability by fostering orderly underlying economic and financial con­
ditions and a monetary system that does not tend to produce erratic disruptions;
(iii) avoid manipulating exchange rates or the international monetary system in order to 
prevent effective balance of payments adjustment or to gain an unfair competitive 
advantage over other members; and
(iv) follow exchange policies compatible with the undertakings under this Section.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 2. General exchange arrangements
(a) Each member shall notify the Fund, within thirty days after the date of the second 
amendment of this Agreement, of the exchange arrangements it intends to apply in fulfillment 
of its obligations under Section 1 of this Article, and shall notify the Fund promptly of any 
changes in its exchange arrangements.
(b) Under an international monetary system of the kind prevailing on January 1, 1976, 
exchange arrangements may include (i) the maintenance by a member of a value for its cur­
rency in terms of the special drawing right or another denominator, other than gold, selected 
by the member, or (ii) cooperative arrangements by which members maintain the value of 
their currencies in relation to the value of the currency or currencies of other members, or (iii) 
other exchange arrangements of a member’s choice.
(c) To accord with the development of the international monetary system, the Fund, by 
an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, may make provision for general 
exchange arrangements without limiting the right of members to have exchange arrange­
ments of their choice consistent with the purposes of the Fund and the obligations under Sec­
tion 1 of this Article.
Section 3. Surveillance over exchange arrangements
(a) The Fund shall oversee the international monetary system in order to ensure its effec­
tive operation, and shall oversee the compliance of each member with its obligations under 
Section 1 of this Article.
(b) In order to fulfill its functions under (a) above, the Fund shall exercise firm surveil­
lance over the exchange rate policies of members, and shall adopt specific principles for the 
guidance of all members with respect to those policies. Each member shall provide the Fund 
with the information necessary for such surveillance, and, when requested by the Fund, shall 
consult with it on the member’s exchange rate policies. The principles adopted by the Fund 
shall be consistent with cooperative arrangements by which members maintain the value of 
their currencies in relation to the value of the currency or currencies of other members, as well 
as with other exchange arrangements of a member’s choice consistent with the purposes of the 
Fund and Section 1 of this Article. These principles shall respect the domestic social and politi­
cal policies of members, and in applying these principles the Fund shall pay due regard to the 
circumstances of members.
Section 4. Par values
The Fund may determine, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, 
that international economic conditions permit the introduction of a widespread system of 
exchange arrangements based on stable but adjustable par values. The Fund shall make the 
determination on the basis of the underlying stability of the world economy, and for this pur­
pose shall take into account price movements and rates of expansion in the economies of 
members. The determination shall be made in light of the evolution of the international mon­
etary system, with particular reference to sources of liquidity, and, in order to ensure the effec­
tive operation of a system of par values, to arrangements under which both members in sur­
plus and members in deficit in their balances of payments take prompt, effective, and 
symmetrical action to achieve adjustment, as well as to arrangements for intervention and the 
treatment of imbalances. Upon making such determination, the Fund shall notify members 
that the provisions of Schedule C apply.
Section 5. Separate currencies within a member’s territories
(a) 
Action by a member with respect to its currency under this Article shall be deemed to 
apply to the separate currencies of all territories in respect of which the member has accepted 
this Agreement under Article XXXI, Section 2 (g) unless the member declares that its action 
relates either to the metropolitan currency alone, or only to one or more specified separate cur­
rencies, or to the metropolitan currency and one or more specified separate currencies.
(b) 
Action by the Fund under this Article shall be deemed to relate to all currencies of a 
member referred to in (a) above unless the Fund declares otherwise.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
ARTICLE V
OPERATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS OF THE FUND 
Section 1. Agencies dealing with the Fund
Each member shall deal with the Fund only through its Treasury, central bank, stabiliza­
tion fund, or other similar fiscal agency, and the Fund shall deal only with or through the same 
agencies.
Section 2. Limitation on the Fund’s operations and transactions
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, transactions on the account of the 
Fund shall be limited to transactions for the purpose of supplying a member, on the initiative 
of such member, with special drawing rights or the currencies of other members from the gen­
eral resources of the Fund, which shall be held in the General Resources Account, in exchange 
for the currency of the member desiring to make the purchase.
(b) If requested, the Fund may decide to perform financial and technical services, includ­
ing the administration of resources contributed by members, that are consistent with the pur­
poses of the Fund. Operations involved in the performance of such financial services shall not 
be on the account of the Fund. Services under this subsection shall not impose any obligation 
on a member without its consent.
Section 3. Conditions governing use o f the Fund’s general resources
(а) The Fund shall adopt policies on the use of its general resources, including policies on 
stand-by or similar arrangements, and may adopt special policies for special balance of pay­
ments problems, that will assist members to solve their balance of payments problems in a 
manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and that will establish adequate safe­
guards for the temporary use of the general resources of the Fund.
(б) A member shall be entitled to purchase the currencies of other members from the 
Fund in exchange for an equivalent amount of its own currency subject to the following 
conditions:
(i) the member’s use of the general resources of the Fund would be in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement and the policies adopted under them;
(ii) the member represents that it has a need to make the purchase because of its balance 
of payments or its reserve position or developments in its reserves;
(iii) the proposed purchase would be a reserve tranche purchase, or would not cause the 
Fund’s holdings of the purchasing member’s currency to exceed two hundred percent 
of its quota;
(iv) the Fund has not previously declared under Section 5 of this Article, Article VI, Sec­
tion 1, or Article XXVI, Section 2 (a) that the member desiring to purchase is ineli­
gible to use the general resources of the Fund.
(c) The Fund shall examine a request for a purchase to determine whether the proposed 
purchase would be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the policies adopted 
under them, provided that requests for reserve tranche purchases shall not be subject to 
challenge.
(d) The Fund shall adopt policies and procedures on the selection of currencies to be sold 
that take into account, in consultation with members, the balance of payments and reserve 
position of members and developments in the exchange markets, as well as the desirability of 
promoting over time balanced positions in the Fund, provided that if a member represents 
that it is proposing to purchase the currency of another member because the purchasing 
member wishes to obtain an equivalent amount of its own currency offered by the other 
member, it shall be entitled to purchase the currency of the other member unless the Fund has 
given notice under Article VII, Section 3 that its holdings of the currency have become scarce.
(e) (i) Each member shall ensure that balances of its currency purchased from the
Fund are balances of a freely usable currency or can be exchanged at the time of 
purchase for a freely usable currency of its choice at an exchange rate between 
the two currencies equivalent to the exchange rate between them on the basis of 
Article XIX, Section 7 (a).
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(ii) Each member whose currency is purchased from the Fund or is obtained in 
exchange for currency purchased from the Fund shall collaborate with the Fund 
and other members to enable such balances of its currency to be exchanged, at 
the time of purchase, for the freely usable currencies of other members.
(iii) An exchange under (i) above of a currency that is not freely usable shall be
made by the member whose currency is purchased unless that member and the 
purchasing member agree on another procedure. 
'
(iv) A member purchasing from the Fund the freely usable currency of another 
member and wishing to exchange it at the time of purchase for another freely 
usable currency shall make the exchange with the other member if requested by 
that member. The exchange shall be made for a freely usable currency selected 
by the other member at the rate of exchange referred to in (i) above.
(/) Under policies and procedures which it shall adopt, the Fund may agree to provide a 
participant making a purchase in accordance with this Section with special drawing rights in­
stead of the currencies of other members.
Section 4. Waiver o f conditions
The Fund may in its discretion, and on terms which safeguard its interests, waive any of 
the conditions prescribed in Section 3 (b) (iii) and (iv) of this Article, especially in the case of 
members with a record of avoiding large or continuous use of the Fund’s general resources. In 
making a waiver it shall take into consideration periodic or exceptional requirements of the 
member requesting the waiver. The Fund shall also take into consideration a member’s will­
ingness to pledge as collateral security acceptable assets having a value sufficient in the 
opinion of the Fund to protect its interests and may require as a condition of waiver the pledge 
of such collateral security.
Section 5. Ineligibility to use the Fund’s general resources
Whenever the Fund is of the opinion that any member is using the general resources of the 
Fund in a manner contrary to the purposes of the Fund, it shall present to the member a report 
setting forth the views of the Fund and prescribing a suitable time for reply. After presenting 
such a report to a member, the Fund may limit the use of its general resources by the member. 
If no reply to the report is received from the member within the prescribed time, or if the reply 
received is unsatisfactory, the Fund may continue to limit the member’s use of the general re­
sources of the Fund or may, after giving reasonable notice to the member, declare it ineligible 
to use the general resources of the Fund.
Section 6. Other purchases and sales o f special drawing rights by the Fund
(a) 
The Fund may accept special drawing rights offered by a participant in exchange for 
an equivalent amount of the currencies of other members.
(b) 
The Fund may provide a participant, at its request, with special drawing rights for an 
equivalent amount of the currencies of other members. The Fund’s holdings of a member’s 
currency shall not be increased as a result of these transactions above the level at which the 
holdings would be subject to charges under Section 8 (6) (ii) of this Article.
(c) 
The currencies provided or accepted by the Fund under this Section shall be selected 
in accordance with policies that take into account the principles of Section 3 (d) or 7 (i) of this 
Article. The Fund may enter into transactions under this Section only if a member whose cur­
rency is provided or accepted by the Fund concurs in that use of its currency.
Section 7. Repurchase by a member o f its currency held by the Fund
(a) A member shall be entitled to repurchase at any time the Fund’s holdings of its cur­
rency that are subject to charges under Section 8 (b) of this Article.
(b) A member that has made a purchase under Section 3 of this Article will be expected 
normally, as its balance of payments and reserve position improves, to repurchase the Fund’s 
holdings of its currency that result from the purchase and are subject to charges under Section 
8 (b) of this Article. A member shall repurchase these holdings if, in accordance with policies 
on repurchase that the Fund shall adopt and after consultation with the member, the Fund 
represents to the member that it should repurchase because of an improvement in its balance 
of payments and reserve position.
(c) A member that has made a purchase under Section 3 of this Article shall repurchase 
the Fund’s holdings of its currency that result from the purchase and are subject to charges
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
under Section 8 (6) of this Article not later than 5 years after the date on which the purchase 
was made. The Fund may prescribe that repurchase shall be made by a member in install­
ments during the period beginning three years and ending five years after the date of a pur­
chase. The Fund, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, may change the 
periods for repurchase under this subsection, and any period so adopted shall apply to all 
members.
(</) The Fund, by an eighty-five per cent majority of the total voting power, may adopt 
periods other than those that apply in accordance with (c) above, which shall be the same for 
all members, for the repurchase of holdings of currency acquired by the Fund pursuant to a 
special policy on the use of its general resources.
(e) 
A member shall repurchase, in accordance with policies that the Fund shall adopt by a 
seventy percent majority of the total voting power, the Fund’s holdings of its currency that are 
not acquired as a result of purchases and are subject to charges under Section 8 (A) (ii) of this 
Article.
(/) A decision prescribing that under a policy on the use of the general resources of the 
Fund the period for repurchase under (c) or (d) above shall be shorter than the one in effect 
under the policy shall apply only to holdings acquired by the Fund subsequent to the effective 
date of the decision.
(g) 
The Fund, on the request of a member, may postpone the date of discharge of a repur­
chase obligation, but not beyond the maximum period under (c) or (d) above or under poli­
cies adopted by the Fund under (e) above, unless the Fund determines, by a seventy percent 
majority of the total voting power, that a longer period for repurchase which is consistent with 
the temporary use of the general resources of the Fund is justified because discharge on the 
due date would result in exceptional hardship for the member.
(A) The Fund’s policies under Section 3 (d) of this Article may be supplemented by poli­
cies under which the Fund may decide after consultation with a member to sell under Section 
3 (A) of this Article its holdings of the member’s currency that have not been repurchased in 
accordance with this Section 7, without prejudice to any action that the Fund may be 
authorized to take under any other provision of this Agreement.
(0 All repurchases under this Section shall be made with special drawing rights or with 
the currencies of other members specified by the Fund. The Fund shall adopt policies and pro­
cedures with regard to the currencies to be used by members in making repurchases that take 
into account the principles in Section 3 (d) of this Article. The Fund’s holdings of a member’s 
currency that is used in repurchase shall not be increased by the repurchase above the level at 
which they would be subject to charges under Section 8 (A) (ii) of this Article.
(J) (i) If a member’s currency specified by the Fund under (/') above is not a freely usa­
ble currency, the member shall ensure that the repurchasing member can obtain 
it at the time of the repurchase in exchange for a freely usable currency selected 
by the member whose currency has been specified. An exchange of currency 
under this provision shall take place at an exchange rate between the two curren­
cies equivalent to the exchange rate between them on the basis of Article XIX, 
Section 7 (a).
(ii) Each member whose currency is specified by the Fund for repurchase shall 
collaborate with the Fund and other members to enable repurchasing members, 
at the time of the repurchase, to obtain the specified currency in exchange for the 
freely usable currencies of other members.
(iii) An exchange under (j) (i) above shall be made with the member whose 
currency is specified unless that member and the repurchasing member agree on 
another procedure.
(iv) If a repurchasing member wishes to obtain, at the time’ of the repurchase, the 
freely usable currency of another member specified by the Fund under (/) above, 
it shall, if requested by the other member, obtain the currency from the other 
member in exchange for a freely usable currency at the rate of exchange referred 
to in (j) (i) above. The Fund may adopt regulations on the freely usable currency 
to be provided in an exchange.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 8. Charges
(а) (i) The Fund shall levy a service charge on the purchase by a member of special
drawing rights or the currency of another member held in the General Resources 
Account in exchange for its own currency, provided that the Fund may levy a 
lower service charge on reserve tranche purchases than on other purchases. The 
service charge on reserve tranche purchases shall not exceed one-half of one 
percent.
(ii) The Fund may levy a charge for stand-by or similar arrangements. The Fund 
may decide that the charge for an arrangement shall be offset against the service 
charge levied under (i) above on purchases under the arrangement.
(б) The Fund shall levy charges on is average daily balances of a member’s currency held 
in the General Resources Account to the extent that they
(i) have been acquired under a policy that has been the subject of an exclusion under 
Article XXX (c), or
(ii) exceed the amount of the member’s quota after excluding any balances referred to in 
(i) above.
The rates of charge normally shall rise at intervals during the period in which balances are 
held.
(c) If a member fails to make a repurchase required under Section 7 of this Article, the 
Fund, after consultation with the member on the reduction of the Fund’s holdings of its 
currency, may impose such charges as the Fund deems appropriate on its holdings of the 
member’s currency that should have been repurchased.
(d) A seventy percent majority of the total voting power shall be required for the 
determination of the rates of charge under (a) and (b) above, which shall be uniform for all 
members, and under (c) above.
(e) A member shall pay all charges in special drawing rights, provided that in exceptional 
circumstances the Fund may permit a member to pay charges in the currencies of other 
members specified by the Fund, after consultation with them, or in its own currency. The 
Fund’s holdings of a member’s currency shall not be increased as a result of payments by 
other members under this provision above the level at which they would be subject to charges 
under (b) (ii) above.
Section 9. Remuneration
(а) The Fund shall pay remuneration on the amount by which the percentage of quota 
prescribed under (6) or (c) below exceeds the Fund’s average daily balances of a member’s 
currency held in the General Resources Account other than balances acquired under a policy 
that has been the subject of an exclusion under Article XXX (c). The rate of remuneration, 
which shall be determined by the Fund by a seventy percent majority of the total voting 
power, shall be the same for all members and shall be not more than, nor less than four-fifths 
of, the rate of interest under Article XX, Section 3. In establishing the rate of remuneration, 
the Fund shall take into account the rates of charge under Article V, Section 8(6).
(б) The percentage of quota applying for the purposes of (a) above shall be:
(i) for each member that became a member before the second amendment of this 
Agreement, a percentage of quota corresponding to seventy-five percent of its 
quota on the date of the second amendment of this Agreement, and for each 
member that became a member after the date of the second amendment of 
this Agreement, a percentage of quota calculated by dividing the total of the 
amounts corresponding to the percentages of quota that apply to the other 
members on the date on which the member became a member by the total of 
the quotas of the other members on the same date; plus
(ii) the amounts it has paid to the Fund in currency or special drawing rights 
under Article III, Section 3 (a) since the date applicable under (6) (i) above; 
and minus
(iii) the amounts it has received from the Fund in currency or special drawing 
rights under Article III, Section 3 (c) since the date applicable under (6) (i) 
above.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(c) The Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting power, may raise the latest 
percentage of quota applying for the purposes of (a) above to each member to:
(i) a percentage, not in excess of one hundred percent, that shall be determined for each 
member on the basis of the same criteria for all members, or
(ii) one hundred percent for all members.
(d) Remuneration shall be paid in special drawing rights, provided that either the Fund 
or the member may decide that the payment to the member shall be made in its own currency.
Section 10. Computations
(a) The value of the Fund’s assets held in the accounts of the General Department shall 
be expressed in terms of the special drawing right.
(b) All computations relating to currencies of members for the purpose of applying the 
provisions of this Agreement, except Article IV and Schedule C, shall be at the rates at which 
the Fund accounts for these currencies in accordance with Section 11 of this Article.
(c) Computations for the determination of amounts of currency in relation to quota for 
the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement shall not include currency held in the 
Special Disbursement Account or in the Investment Account.
Section 1 \ . Maintenance o f value
(a) The value of the currencies of members held in the General Resources Account shall 
be maintained in terms of the special drawing right in accordance with exchange rates under 
Article XIX, Section 7(a).
(b) An adjustment in the Fund’s holdings of a member’s currency pursuant to this Section 
shall be made on the occasion of the use of that currency in an operation or transaction be­
tween the Fund and another member and at such other times as the Fund may decide or the 
member may request. Payments to or by the Fund in respect of an adjustment shall be made 
within a reasonable time, as determined by the Fund, after the date of adjustment, and at any 
other time requested by the member.
Section 12. Other operations and transactions
(а) The Fund shall be guided in all its policies and decisions under this Section by the
objectives set forth in Article VIII, Section 7 and by the objective of avoiding the management 
of the price, or the establishment of a fixed price, in the gold market. 
'
(б) Decisions of the Fund to engage in operations or transactions under (c), (d), and (e)
below shall be made by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power. 
■
(c) The Fund may sell gold for the currency of any member after consulting the member 
for whose currency the gold is sold, provided that the Fund’s holdings of a member’s currency 
held in the General Resources Account shall not be increased by the sale above the level at 
which they would be subject to charges under Section 8 (b) (ii) of this Article without the con­
currence of the member, and provided that, at the request of the member, the Fund at the time 
of sale shall exchange for the currency of another member such part of the currency received 
as would prevent such an increase. The exchange of a currency for the currency of another 
member shall be made after consultation with that member, and shall not increase the Fund’s 
holdings of that member’s currency above the level at which they would be subject to charges 
under Section 8 (b) (ii) of this Article. The Fund shall adopt policies and procedures with re­
gard to exchanges that take into account the principles applied under Section 7 (i) of this 
Article. Sales under this provision to a member shall be at a price agreed for each transaction 
on the basis of prices in the market.
(d) The Fund may accept payments from a member in gold instead of special drawing 
rights or currency in any operations or transactions under this Agreement. Payments to the 
Fund under this provision shall be at a price agreed for each operation or transaction on the 
basis of prices in the market.
(e) 
The Fund may sell gold held by it on the date of the second amendment of this Agree­
ment to those members that were members on August 31, 1975 and that agree to buy it, in 
proportion to their quotas on that date. If the Fund intends to sell gold under (c) above for the 
purpose of (/) (ii) below, it may sell to each developing member that agrees to buy it that 
portion of the gold which, if sold under (c) above, would have produced the excess that could 
have been distributed to it under (f) (iii) below. The gold that would be sold under this pro­
vision to a member that has been declared ineligible to use the general resources of the Fund
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
under Section 5 of this Article shall be sold to it when the ineligibility ceases, unless the Fund 
decides to make the sale sooner. The sale of gold to a member under this subsection (e) shall 
be made in exchange for its currency and at a price equivalent at the time of sale to one special 
drawing right per 0.888 671 gram of fine gold.
(/) Whenever under (c) above the Fund sells gold held by it on the date of the second 
amendment of this Agreement, an amount of the proceeds equivalent at the time of sale to one 
special drawing right per 0.888 671 gram of fine gold shall be placed in the General Resources 
Account and, except as the Fund may decide otherwise under (g) below, any excess shall be 
held in the Special Disbursement Account. The assets held in the Special Disbursement 
Account shall be held separately from the other accounts of the General Department, and 
may be used at any time:
(i) to make transfers to the General Resources Account for immediate use in operations 
and transactions authorized by provisions of this Agreement other than this Section;
(ii) for operations and transactions that are not authorized by other provisions of this 
Agreement but are consistent with the purposes of the Fund. Under this subsection 
(J) (ii) balance of payments assistance may be made available on special terms to 
developing members in difficult circumstances, and for this purpose the Fund shall 
take into account the level of per capita income;
(iii) for distribution to those developing members that were members on August 31, 1975, 
in proportion to their quotas on that date, of such part of the assets that the Fund de­
cides to use for the purposes of (ii) above as corresponds to the proportion of the 
quotas of these members on the date of distribution to the total of the quotas of all 
members on the same date, provided that the distribution under this provision to a 
member that has been declared ineligible to use the general resources of the Fund 
under Section 5 of this Article shall be made when the ineligibility ceases, unless the 
Fund decides to make the distribution sooner.
Decisions to use assets pursuant to (i) above shall be taken by a seventy percent majority of 
the total voting power, and decisions pursuant to (ii) and (iii) above shall be taken by an 
eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power.
(g) The Fund may decide, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power to 
transfer a part of the excess referred to in (f) above to the Investment Account for use pursu­
ant to the provisions of Article XII, Section 6 (/).
(A) Pending uses specified under (f) above, the Fund may invest a member’s currency 
held in the Special Disbursement Account in marketable obligations of that member or in 
marketable obligations of international financial organizations. The income of investment and 
interest received under (/) (ii) above shall be placed in the Special Disbursement Account. No 
investment shall be made without the concurrence of the member whose currency is used to 
make the investment. The Fund shall invest only in obligations denominated in special draw­
ing rights or in the currency used for investment.
(j) The General Resources Account shall be reimbursed from time to time in respect of 
the expenses of administration of the Special Disbursement Account paid from the General 
Resources Account by transfers from the Special Disbursement Account on the basis of a 
reasonable estimate of such expenses.
(j) The Special Disbursement Account shall be terminated in the event of the liquidation 
of the Fund and may be terminated prior to liquidation of the Fund by a seventy percent ma­
jority of the total voting power. Upon termination of the account because of the liquidation of 
the Fund, any assets in this account shall be distributed in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule K. Upon termination prior to liquidation of the Fund, any assets in this account shall 
be transferred to the General Resources Account for immediate use in operations and trans­
actions. The Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting power, shall adopt rules 
and regulations for the administration of the Special Disbursement Account.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1—continued
ARTICLE VI 
CAPITAL TRANSFERS
Section 1. Use o f the Fund’s general resources for capital transfers
(a) A member may not use the Fund’s general resources to meet a large or sustained 
outflow of capital except as provided in Section 2 of this Article, and the Fund may request a 
member to exercise controls to prevent such use of the general resources of the Fund. If, after 
receiving such a request, a member fails to exercise appropriate controls, the Fund may de­
clare the member ineligible to use the general resources of the Fund.
(b) Nothing in this Section shall be deemed:
(i) to prevent the use of the general resources of the Fund for capital transactions of 
reasonable amount required for the expansion of exports or in the ordinary course of 
trade, banking, or other business; or
(ii) to affect capital movements which are met out of a member’s own resources, but 
members undertake that such capital movements will be in accordance with the pur­
poses of the Fund.
Section 2. Special provisions for capital transfers
A member shall be entitled to make reserve tranche purchases to meet capital transfers.
Section 3. Controls o f capital transfers
Members may exercise such controls as are necessary to regulate international capital 
movements, but no member may exercise these controls in a manner which will restrict pay­
ments for current transactions or which will unduly delay transfers of funds in settlement of 
commitments, except as provided in Article VII, Section 3 (b) and in Article XIV, Section 2.
ARTICLE VII
REPLENISHMENT AND SCARCE CURRENCIES 
Section 1. Measures to replenish the Fund’s holdings o f currencies
The Fund may, if it deems such action appropriate to replenish its holdings of any 
member’s currency in the General Resources Account needed in connection with its trans­
actions, take either or both of the following steps:
(i) propose to the member that, on terms and conditions agreed between the Fund and 
the member, the latter lend its currency to the Fund or that, with the concurrence of 
the member, the Fund borrow such currency from some other source either within or 
outside the territories of the member, but no member shall be under any obligation to 
make such loans to the Fund or to concur in the borrowing of its currency by the Fund 
from any other source;
(ii) require the member, if it is a participant, to sell its currency to the Fund for special 
drawing rights held in the General Resources Account, subject to Article XIX, Section
4. In replenishing with special drawing rights, the Fund shall pay due regard to the 
principles of designation under Article XIX, Section 5.
Section 2. General scarcity o f currency
If the Fund finds that a general scarcity of a particular currency is developing, the Fund 
may so inform members and may issue a report setting forth the causes of the scarcity and con­
taining recommendations designed to bring it to an end. A representative of the member 
whose currency is involved shall participate in the preparation of the report.
Section 3. Scarcity o f the Fund’s holdings
(a) 
If it becomes evident to the Fund that the demand for a member’s currency seriously 
threatens the Fund’s ability to supply that currency, the Fund, whether or not it has issued a 
report under Section 2 of this Article, shall formally declare such currency scarce and shall 
thenceforth apportion its existing and accruing supply of the scarce currency with due regard 
to the relative needs of members, the general international economic situation, and any other 
pertinent considerations. The Fund shall also issue a report concerning its action.
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
(6) A formal declaration under (a) above shall operate as an authorization to any 
member, after consultation with the Fund, temporarily to impose limitations on the freedom 
of exchange operations in the scarce currency. Subject to the provisions of Article IV and 
Schedule C, the member shall have complete jurisdiction in determining the nature of such 
limitations, but they shall be no more restrictive than is necessary to limit the demand for the 
scarce currency to the supply held by, or accruing to, the member in question, and they shall 
be relaxed and removed as rapidly as conditions permit.
(c) 
The authorization under (b) above shall expire whenever the Fund formally declares 
the currency in question to be no longer scarce.
Section 4. Administration o f restrictions
Any member imposing restrictions in respect of the currency of any other member pursu­
ant to the provisions of Section 3 (6) of this Article shall give sympathetic consideration to any 
representations by the other member regarding the administration of such restrictions.
Section 5. Effect o f other international agreements on restrictions
Members agree not to invoke the obligations of any engagements entered into with other 
members prior to this Agreement in such a manner as will prevent the operation of the pro­
visions of this Article.
ARTICLE VIII
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS
Section 1. Introduction
In addition to the obligations assumed under other articles of this Agreement, each 
member undertakes the obligations set out in this Article.
Section 2. Avoidance o f restrictions on current payments
(a) Subject to the provisions of Article VII, Section 3 (b) and Article XIV, Section 2, no 
member shall, without the approval of the Fund, impose restrictions on the making of pay­
ments and transfers for current international transactions.
(b) Exchange contracts which involve the currency of any member and which are con­
trary to the exchange control regulations of that member maintained or imposed consistently 
with this Agreement shall be unenforceable in the territories of any member. In addition, 
members may, by mutual accord, cooperate in measures for the purpose of making the 
exchange control regulations of either member more effective, provided that such measures 
and regulations are consistent with this Agreement.
Section 3. Avoidance o f discriminatory currency practices
No member shall engage in, or permit any of its fiscal agencies referred to in Article V, 
Section 1 to engage in, any discriminatory currency arrangements or multiple currency prac­
tices, whether within or outside margins under Article IV or prescribed by or under Schedule 
C, except as authorized under this Agreement or approved by the Fund. If such arrangements 
and practices are engaged in at the date when this Agreement enters into force, the member 
concerned shall consult with the Fund as to their progressive removal unless they are main­
tained or imposed under Article XIV, Section 2, in which case the provisions of Section 3 of 
that Article shall apply.
Section 4. Convertibility of foreign-held balances
(а) Each member shall buy balances of its currency held by another member if the latter, 
in requesting the purchase, represents:
(i) that the balances to be bought have been recently acquired as a result of current 
transactions; or
(ii) that their conversion is needed for making payments for current transactions.
The buying member shall have the option to pay either in special drawing rights, subject to 
Article XIX, Section 4, or in the currency of the member making the request.
(б) The obligation in (a) above shall not apply when:
(i) the convertibility of the balances has been restricted consistently with Section 2 of this 
Article or Article VI, Section 3;
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(ii) the balances have accumulated as a result of transactions affected before the removal 
by a member of restrictions maintained or imposed under Article XIV, Section 2;
(iii) the balances have been acquired contrary to the exchange regulations of the member 
which is asked to buy them;
(iv) the currency of the member requesting the purchase has been declared scarce under 
Article VII, Section 3 (a); or
(v) the member requested to make the purchase is for any reason not entitled to buy cur­
rencies of other members from the Fund for its own currency.
Section 5. Furnishing of information
(а) The Fund may require members to furnish it with such information as it deems 
necessary for its activities, including, as the minimum necessary for the effective discharge of 
the Fund’s duties, national data on the following matters:
(i) official holdings at home and abroad of (1) gold, (2) foreign exchange;
(ii) holdings at home and abroad by banking and financial agencies, other than official 
agencies, of (1) gold, (2) foreign exchange;
(iii) production of gold;
(iv) gold exports and imports according to countries of destination and origin;
(v) total exports and imports of merchandise, in terms of local currency values, according 
to countries of destination and origin;
(vi) international balance of payments, including (1) trade in goods and services, (2) gold 
transactions, (3) known capital transactions, and (4) other items;
(vii) international investment position, i.e., investments within the territories of the 
member owned abroad and investments abroad owned by persons in its territories so 
far as it is possible to furnish this information;
(viii) national income;
(ix) price indices, i.e., indices of commodity prices in wholesale and retail markets and of 
export and import prices;
(x) buying and selling rates for foreign currencies;
(xi) exchange controls, i.e., a comprehensive statement of exchange controls in effect at 
the time of assuming membership in the Fund and details of subsequent changes as 
they occur; and
(xii) where official clearing arrangements exist, details of amounts awaiting clearance in 
respect of commercial and financial transactions, and of the length of time during 
which such arrears have been outstanding.
(б) In requesting information the Fund shall take into consideration the varying ability of 
members to furnish the data requested. Members shall be under no obligation to furnish infor­
mation in such detail that the affairs of individuals or corporations are disclosed. Members 
undertake, however, to furnish the desired information in as detailed and accurate a manner 
as is practicable and, so far as possible, to avoid mere estimates.
(c) 
The Fund may arrange to obtain further information by agreement with members. It 
shall act as a centre for the collection and exchange of information on monetary and financial 
problems, thus facilitating the preparation of studies designed to assist members in developing 
policies which further the purposes of the Fund.
Section 6. Consultation between members regarding existing international agreements
Where under this Agreement a member is authorized in the special or temporary circum­
stances specified in the Agreement to maintain or establish restrictions on exchange trans­
actions, and there are other engagements between members entered into prior to this Agree­
ment which conflict with the application of such restrictions, the parties to such engagements 
shall consult with one another with a view to making such mutually acceptable adjustments as 
may be necessary. The provisions of this Article shall be without prejudice to the operation of 
Article VII, Section 5.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 7. Obligation to collaborate regarding policies on reserve assets
Each member undertakes to collaborate with the Fund and with other members in order 
to ensure that the policies of the member with respect to reserve assets shall be consistent with 
the objectives of promoting better international surveillance of international liquidity and 
making the special drawing right the principal reserve asset in the international monetary 
system.
1978 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
ARTICLE IX
STATUS, IMMUNITIES, AND PRIVILEGES 
Section 1. Purposes o f Article
To enable the Fund to fulfill the functions with which it is entrusted, the status, immunities, 
and privileges set forth in this Article shall be accorded to the Fund in the territories of each 
member.
Section 2. Status o f the Fund
The Fund shall possess full juridical personality, and in particular, the capacity:
(i) to contract;
(ii) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property; and
(iii) to institute legal proceedings.
Section 3. Immunityfrom judicial process
The Fund, its property and its assets, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall 
enjoy immunity from every form of judicial process except to the extent that it expressly 
waives its immunity for the purpose of any proceedings or by the terms of any contract.
Section 4. Immunity from other action
Property and assets of the Fund, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be im­
mune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation, or any other form of seizure by 
executive or legislative action.
Section 5. Immunity o f archives
The archives of the Fund shall be inviolable.
Section 6. Freedom o f assets from restrictions
To the extent necessary to carry out the activities provided for in this Agreement, all prop­
erty and assets of the Fund shall be free from restrictions, regulations, controls, and moratoria 
of any nature.
Section 7. Privilege for communications
The official communications of the Fund shall be accorded by members the same treat­
ment as the official communications of other members.
Section 8. Immunities and privileges o f officers and employees
All Governors, Executive Directors, Alternates, members of committees, representatives 
appointed under Article XII, Section 3 (j), advisors of any of the foregoing persons, officers, 
and employees of the Fund:
(i) shall be immune from legal process with respect to acts performed by them in their 
official capacity except when the Fund waives this immunity;
(ii) not being local nationals, shall be granted the same immunities from immigration re­
strictions, alien registration requirements, and national service obligations and the 
same facilities as regards exchange restrictions as are accorded by members to the 
representatives, officials, and employees of comparable rank of other members; and
(iii) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as is accorded by 
members to representatives, officials, and employees of comparable rank of other 
members.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 9. Immunities from taxation
(а) The Fund, its assets, property, income, and its operations and transactions authorized 
by this Agreement shall be immune from all taxation and from all customs duties. The Fund 
shall also be immune from liability for the collection or payment of any tax or duty.
(б) No tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments paid by the Fund to 
Executive Directors, Alternates, officers, or employees of the Fund who are not local citizens, 
local subjects, or other local nationals.
(c) 
No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security issued by the 
Fund, including any dividend or interest thereon, by whomsoever held:
(i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely because of its origin; or
(ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the place or currency in which it is 
issued, made payable or paid, or the location of any office or place of business main­
tained by the Fund.
Section 10. Application o f Article
Each member shall take such action as is necessary in its own territories for the purpose of 
making effective in terms of its own law the principles set forth in this Article and shall inform 
the Fund of the detailed action which it has taken.
ARTICLE X
RELATIONS WITH OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
The Fund shall cooperate within the terms of this Agreement with any general inter­
national organization and with public international organizations having specialized respon­
sibilities in related fields. Any arrangements for such cooperation which would involve a 
modification of any provision of this Agreement may be effected only after amendment to this 
Agreement under Article XXVIII.
ARTICLE XI
RELATIONS WITH NON-MEMBER COUNTRIES 
Section 1. Undertakings regarding relations with non-member countries 
Each member undertakes:
(i)
not to engage in, nor permit any of its fiscal agencies referred to in Article V, Section 1 
to engage in, any transactions with a non-member or with persons in a non-member’s 
territories which would be contrary to the provisions of this Agreement or the pur­
poses of the Fund;
(ii) not to cooperate with a non-member or with persons in a non-member’s territories in 
practices which would be contrary to the provisions of this Agreement or the purposes 
of the Fund; and
(iii) to cooperate with the Fund with a view to the application in its territories of appropri­
ate measures to prevent transactions with non-members or with persons in their terri­
tories which would be contrary to the provisions of this Agreement or the purposes of 
the Fund.
Section 2. Restrictions on transactions with non-member countries
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the right of any member to impose restrictions on 
exchange transactions with non-members or with persons in their territories unless the Fund 
finds that such restrictions prejudice the interests of members and are contrary to the purposes 
of the Fund.
ARTICLE XII
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Section 1. Structure o f the Fund 
.
The Fund shall have a Board of Governors, an Executive Board, a Managing Director, 
and a staff, and a Council if the Board of Governors decides, by an eighty-five per cent ma­
jority of the total voting power, that the provisions of Schedule D shall be applied.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 2. Board o f Governors
(a) All powers under this Agreement not conferred directly on the Board of Governors, 
the Executive Board, or the Managing Director shall be vested in the Board of Governors. The 
Board of Governors shall consist of one Governor and one Alternate appointed by each 
member in such manner as it may determine. Each Governor and each Alternate shall serve 
until a new appointment is made. No Alternate may vote except in the absence of his princi­
pal. The Board of Governors shall select one of the Governors as chairman.
(b) The Board of Governors may delegate to the Executive Board authority to exercise 
any powers of the Board of Governors, except the powers conferred directly by this Agree­
ment on the Board of Governors.
(c) The Board of Governors shall hold such meetings as may be provided for by the 
Board of Governors or called by the Executive Board. Meetings of the Board of Governors 
shall be called whenever requested by fifteen members or by members having one-quarter of 
the total voting power.
(d) A quorum for any meeting of the Board of Governors shall be a majority of the 
Governors having not less than two-thirds of the total voting power.
(e) Each Governor shall be entitled to cast the number of votes allotted under Section 5 of 
this Article to the member appointing him.
(/) The Board of Governors may by regulation establish a procedure whereby the Execu­
tive Board, when it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Fund, may obtain a vote 
of the Governors on a specific question without calling a meeting of the Board of Governors.
(g) The Board of Governors, and the Executive Board to the extent authorized, may 
adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct the business of 
the Fund.
(h) Governors and Alternates shall serve as such without compensation from the Fund, 
but the Fund may pay them reasonable expenses incurred in attending meetings.
(/) The Board of Governors shall determine the remuneration to be paid to the Executive 
Directors and their Alternates and the salary and terms of the contract of service of the Man­
aging Director.
(/') The Board of Governors and the Executive Board may appoint such committees as 
they deem advisable. Membership of committees need not be limited to Governors or Execu­
tive Directors or their Alternates.
Section 3. Executive Board
(а) The Executive Board shall be responsible for conducting the business of the Fund, 
and for this purpose shall exercise all the powers delegated to it by the Board of Governors.
(б) The Executive Board shall consist of Executive Directors with the Managing Director 
as chairman. Of the Executive Directors:
(i) five shall be appointed by the five members having the largest quotas; and
(ii) fifteen shall be elected by the other members.
For the purpose of each regular election of Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, by an 
eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, may increase or decrease the number of 
Executive Directors in (ii) above. The number of Executive Directors in (ii) above shall be 
reduced by one or two, as the case may be, if Executive Directors are appointed under (c) 
below, unless the Board of Governors decides, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total 
voting power, that this reduction would hinder the effective discharge of the functions of the 
Executive Board or of Executive Directors or would threaten to upset a desirable balance in 
the Executive Board.
(c) If, at the second regular election of Executive Directors and thereafter, the members 
entitled to appoint Executive Directors under (b) (i) above do not include the two members, 
the holdings of whose currencies by the Fund in the General Resources Account have been, on 
the average over the preceding two years, reduced below their quotas by the largest absolute 
amounts in terms of the special drawing right, either one or both of such members, as the case 
may be, may appoint an Executive Director.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements A mendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(d) Elections of elective Executive Directors shall be conducted at intervals of two years in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule E, supplemented by such regulations as the Fund 
deems appropriate. For each regular election of Executive Directors, the Board of Governors 
may issue regulations making changes in the proportion of votes required to elect Executive 
Directors under the provisions of Schedule E.
(e) Each Executive Director shall appoint an Alternate with full power to act for him 
when he is not present. When the Executive Directors appointing them are present, Alternates 
may participate in meetings but may not vote.
(f) Executive Directors shall continue in office until their successors are appointed or 
elected. If the office of an elected Executive Director becomes vacant more than ninety days 
before the end of his term, another Executive Director shall be elected for the remainder of the 
term by the members that elected the former Executive Director. A majority of the votes cast 
shall be required for election. While the office remains vacant, the Alternate of the former 
Executive Director shall exercise his powers, except that of appointing an Alternate.
(g) The Executive Board shall function in continuous session at the principal office of the 
Fund and shall meet as often as the business of the Fund may require.
(A) A quorum for any meeting of the Executive Board shall be a majority of the Executive 
Directors having not less than one-half of the total voting power.
(/) (i) Each appointed Executive Director shall be entitled to cast the number of votes 
allotted under Section 5 of this Article to the member appointing him.
(ii) If the votes allotted to a member that appoints an Executive Director under (c) 
above were cast by an Executive Director together with the votes allotted to other 
members as a result of the last regular election of Executive Directors, the 
member may agree with each of the other members that the number of votes al­
lotted to it shall be cast by the appointed Executive Director. A member making 
such an agreement shall not participate in the election of Executive Directors.
(iii) Each elected Executive Director shall be entitled to cast the number of votes 
which counted towards his election.
(iv) When the provisions of Section 5 (A) of this Article are applicable, the votes 
which an Executive Director would otherwise be entitled to cast shall be 
increased or decreased correspondingly. All the votes which an Executive Direc­
tor is entitled to cast shall be cast as a unit.
(j) The Board of Governors shall adopt regulations under which a member not entitled 
to appoint an Executive Director under (A) above may send a representative to attend any 
meeting of the Executive Board when a request made by, or a matter particularly affecting, 
that member is under consideration.
Section 4. Managing Director and Staff
(a) 
The Executive Board shall select a Managing Director who shall not be a Governor or 
an Executive Director. The Managing Director shall be chairman of the Executive Board, but 
shall have no vote except a deciding vote in case of an equal division. He may participate in 
meetings of the Board of Governors, but shall not vote at such meetings. The Managing Direc­
tor shall cease to hold office when the Executive Board so decides.
(A) The Managing Director shall be chief of the operating staff of the Fund and shall con­
duct, under the direction of the Executive Board, the ordinary business of the Fund. Subject to 
the general control of the Executive Board, he shall be responsible for the organization, 
appointment, and dismissal of the staff of the Fund.
(c) The Managing Director and the staff of the Fund, in the discharge of their functions, 
shall owe their duty entirely to the Fund and to no other authority. Each member of the Fund 
shall respect the international character of this duty and shall refrain from all attempts to 
influence any of the staff in the discharge of these functions.
(d) 
In appointing the staff the Managing Director shall, subject to the paramount im­
portance of securing the highest standards of efficiency and of technical competence, pay due 
regard to the importance of recruiting personnel on as wide a geographical basis as possible.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 5. Voting
(a) Each member shall have two hundred fifty votes plus one additional vote for each 
part of its quota equivalent to one hundred thousand special drawing rights.
(b) Whenever voting is required under Article V, Section 4 or 5, each member shall have 
the number of votes to which it is entitled under (a) above adjusted:
(i) by the addition of one vote for the equivalent of each four hundred thousand special 
drawing rights of net sales of its currency from the general resources of the Fund up to 
the date when the vote is taken, or
(ii) by the subtraction of one vote for the equivalent of each four hundred thousand 
special drawing rights of its net purchases under Article V, Section 3 (6) and (f) up to 
the date when the vote is taken,
provided that neither net purchases nor net sales shall be deemed at any time to exceed an 
amount equal to the quota of the member involved.
(c) Except as otherwise specifically provided, all decisions of the Fund shall be made by a 
majority of the votes cast.
Section 6. Reserves, distribution o f net income, and investment
(a) The Fund shall determine annually what part of its net income shall be placed to gen­
eral reserve or special reserve, and what part, if any, shall be distributed.
(b) The Fund may use the special reserve for any purpose for which it may use the general 
reserve, except distribution.
(c) If any distribution is made of the net income of any year, it shall be made to all 
members in proportion to their quotas.
(d) The Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting power, may decide at any 
time to distribute any part of the general reserve. Any such distribution shall be made to all 
members in proportion to their quotas.
(e) Payments under (c) and (</) above shall be made in special drawing rights, provided 
that either the Fund or the member may decide that the payment to the member shall be 
made in its own currency.
if) (i) The Fund may establish an Investment Account for the purposes of this subsec­
tion (/). The assets of the Investment Account shall be held separately from the 
other accounts of the General Department.
(ii) The Fund may decide to transfer to the Investment Account a part of the pro­
ceeds of the sale of gold in accordance with Article V, Section 12 (g) and, by a 
seventy percent majority of the total voting power, may decide to transfer to the 
Investment Account, for immediate investment, currencies held in the General 
Resources Account. The amount of these transfers shall not exceed the total 
amount of the general reserve and the special reserve at the time of the decision.
(fii) The Fund may invest a member’s currency held in the Investment Account in 
marketable obligations of that member or in marketable obligations of inter­
national financial organizations. No investment shall be made without the con­
currence of the member whose currency is used to make the investment. The 
Fund shall invest only in obligations denominated in special drawing rights or in 
the currency used for investment.
(iv) The income of investment may be invested in accordance with the provisions of 
this subsection (/). Income not invested shall be held in the Investment Account 
or may be used for meeting the expenses of conducting the business of the Fund.
(v) The Fund may use a member’s currency held in the Investment Account to 
obtain the currencies needed to meet the expenses of conducting the business of 
the Fund.
(vi) The Investment Account shall be terminated in the event of liquidation of the 
Fund and may be terminated, or the amount of the investment may be reduced, 
prior to liquidation of the Fund by a seventy percent majority of the total voting 
power. The Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting power, shall 
adopt rules and regulations regarding administration of the Investment Account, 
which shall be consistent with (vii), (viii), and (ix) below.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
(vii) Upon termination of the Investment Account because of liquidation of the Fund, 
any assets in this account shall be distributed in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule K, provided that a portion of these assets corresponding to the pro­
portion of the assets transferred to this account under Article V, Section 12 (g) to 
the total of the assets transferred to this account shall be deemed to be assets held 
in the Special Disbursement Account and shall be distributed in accordance with 
Schedule K, paragraph 2 (a) (ii).
(viii) Upon termination of the Investment Account prior to liquidation of the Fund, a 
portion of the assets held in this account corresponding to the proportion of the 
assets transferred to this account under Article V, Section 12 (g) to the total of 
the assets transferred to the account shall be transferred to the Special Disburse­
ment Account if it has not been terminated, and the balance of the assets held in 
the Investment Account shall be transferred to the General Resources Account 
for immediate use in operations and transactions.
(ix) On a reduction of the amount of the investment by the Fund, a portion of the re­
duction corresponding to the proportion of the assets transferred to the Invest­
ment Account under Article V, Section 12 (g) to the total of the assets transferred 
to this account shall be transferred to the Special Disbursement Account if it has 
not been terminated, and the balance of the reduction shall be transferred to the 
General Resources Account for immediate use in operations and transactions.
Section 7. Publication of reports
(a) The Fund shall publish an annual report containing an audited statement of its 
accounts, and shall issue, at intervals of three months or less, a summary statement of its oper­
ations and transactions and its holdings of special drawing rights, gold, and currencies of 
members.
(b) The Fund may publish such other reports as it deems desirable for carrying out its 
purposes.
Section 8. Communication o f views to members
The Fund shall at all times have the right to communicate its views informally to any 
member on any matter arising under this Agreement. The Fund may, by a seventy percent 
majority of the total voting power, decide to publish a report made to a member regarding its 
monetary or economic conditions and developments which directly tend to produce a serious 
disequilibrium in the international balance of payments of members. If the member is not en­
titled to appoint an Executive Director, it shall be entitled to representation in accordance with 
Section 3 (/') of this Article. The Fund shall not publish a report involving changes in the fun­
damental structure of the economic organization of members.
ARTICLE XIII
OFFICES AND DEPOSITORIES
Section 1 .Location o f offices
The principal office of the Fund shall be located in the territory of the member having the 
largest quota, and agencies or branch offices may be established in the territories of other 
members.
Section 2. Depositories
(a) Each member shall designate its central bank as a depository for all the Fund’s 
holdings of its currency, or if it has no central bank it shall designate such other institution as 
may be acceptable to the Fund.
(b) The Fund may hold other assets, including gold, in the depositories designated by the 
five members having the largest quotas and in such other designated depositories as the Fund 
may select. Initially, at least one-half of the holdings of the Fund shall be held in the deposi­
tory designated by the member in whose territories the Fund has its principal office and at 
least forty percent shall be held in the depositories designated by the remaining four members 
referred to above. However, all transfers of gold by the Fund shall be made with due regard to 
the costs of transport and anticipated requirements of the Fund. In an emergency the Execu­
tive Board may transfer all or any part of the Fund’s gold holdings to any place where they 
can be adequately protected.
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 3. Guarantee of the Fund’s assets
Each member guarantees all assets of the Fund against loss resulting from failure or de­
fault on the part of the depository designated by it.
ARTICLE XIV
TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
Section 1. Notification to the Fund
Each member shall notify the Fund whether it intends to avail itself of the transitional ar­
rangements in Section 2 of this Article, or whether it is prepared to accept the obligations of 
Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4. A member availing itself of the transitional arrangements 
shall notify the Fund as soon thereafter as it is prepared to accept these obligations.
Section 2. Exchange restrictions
A member that has notified the Fund that it intends to avail itself of transitional arrange­
ments as under this provision may, notwithstanding the provisions of any other articles of this 
Agreement, maintain and adapt to changing circumstances the restrictions on payments and 
transfers for current international transactions that were in effect on the date on which it be­
came a member. Members shall, however, have continuous regard in their foreign exchange 
policies to the purposes of the Fund, and, as soon as conditions permit, they shall take all poss­
ible measures to develop such commercial and financial arrangements with other members as 
will facilitate international payments and the promotion of a stable system of exchange rates. 
In particular, members shall withdraw restrictions maintained under this Section as soon as 
they are satisfied that they will be able, in the absence of such restrictions, to settle their bal­
ance of payments in a manner which will not unduly encumber their access to the general re­
sources of the Fund.
Section 3. Action o f the Fund relating to restrictions
The Fund shall make annual reports on the restrictions in force under Section 2 of this 
Article. Any member retaining any restrictions inconsistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 
4 shall consult the Fund annually as to their further retention. The Fund may, if it deems such 
action necessary in exceptional circumstances, make representations to any member that con­
ditions are favorable for the withdrawal of any particular restriction, or for the general aban­
donment of restrictions, inconsistent with the provisions of any other articles of this Agree­
ment. The member shall be given a suitable time to reply to such representations. If the Fund 
finds that the member persists in maintaining restrictions which are inconsistent with the pur­
poses of the Fund, the member shall be subject to Article XXVI, Section 2 (a).
ARTICLE XV
SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS 
Section 1. A uthority to allocate special drawing rights
To meet the need, as and when it arises, for a supplement to existing reserve assets, the 
Fund is authorized to allocate special drawing rights to members that are participants in the 
Special Drawing Rights Department.
Section 2. Valuation of the special drawing right
The method of valuation of the special drawing right shall be determined by the Fund by a 
seventy percent majority of the total voting power, provided, however, that an eighty-five per­
cent majority of the total voting power shall be required for a change in the principle of valu­
ation or a fundamental change in the application of the principle in effect.
ARTICLE XVI
GENERAL DEPARTMENT AND SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS DEPARTMENT 
Section 1. Separation o f operations and transactions
All operations and transactions involving special drawing rights shall be conducted 
through the Special Drawing Rights Department. All other operations and transactions on the 
account of the Fund authorized by or under this Agreement shall be conducted through the 
General Department. Operations and transactions pursuant to Article XVII, Section 2 shall be 
conducted through the General Department as well as the Special Drawing Rights 
Department.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 2. Separation o f assets and property
All assets and property of the Fund, except resources administered under Article V, Sec­
tion 2 (b), shall be held in the General Department, provided that assets and property 
acquired under Article XX, Section 2 and Articles XXIV and XXV and Schedules H and I 
shall be held in the Special Drawing Rights Department. Any assets or property held in one 
Department shall not be available to discharge or meet the liabilities, obligations, or losses of 
the Fund incurred in the conduct of the operations and transactions of the other Department, 
except that the expenses of conducting the business of the Special Drawing Rights Depart­
ment shall be paid by the Fund from the General Department which shall be reimbursed in 
special drawing rights from time to time by assessments under Article XX, Section 4 made on 
the basis of a reasonable estimate of such expenses.
Section 3. Recording and information
All changes in holdings of special drawing rights shall take effect only when recorded by 
the Fund in the Special Drawing Rights Department. Participants shall notify the Fund of the 
provisions of this Agreement under which special drawing rights are used. The Fund may re­
quire participants to furnish it with such other information as it deems necessary for its 
functions.
ARTICLE XVII
PARTICIPANTS AND OTHER HOLDERS OF SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS 
Section 1. Participants
Each member of the Fund that deposits with the Fund an instrument setting forth that it 
undertakes all the obligations of a participant in the Special Drawing Rights Department in 
accordance with its law and that it has taken all steps necessary to enable it to carry out all of 
these obligations shall become a participant in the Special Drawing Rights Department as of 
the date the instrument is deposited, except that no member shall become a participant before 
the provisions of this Agreement pertaining exclusively to the Special Drawing Rights Depart­
ment have entered into force and instruments have been deposited under this Section by 
members that have at least seventy-five percent of the total of quotas.
Section 2. Fund as a holder
The Fund may hold special drawing rights in the General Resources Account and may 
accept and use them in operations and transactions conducted through the General Resources 
Account with participants in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or with 
prescribed holders in accordance with the terms and conditions prescribed under Section 3 of 
this Article.
Section 3. Other holders
The Fund may prescribe:
(i) as holders, non-members, members that are non-participants, institutions that per­
form functions of a central bank for more than one member, and other official 
entities;
(ii) the terms and conditions on which prescribed holders may be permitted to hold 
special drawing rights and may accept and use them in operations and transactions 
with participants and other prescribed holders; and
(iii) the terms and conditions on which participants and the Fund through the General 
Resources Account may enter into operations and transactions in special drawing 
rights with prescribed holders.
An eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power shall be required for prescriptions 
under (i) above. The terms and conditions prescribed by the Fund shall be consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the effective functioning of the Special Drawing Rights 
Department.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
ARTICLE XVIII
ALLOCATION AND CANCELLATION OF SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS 
Section 1. Principles and considerations governing allocation and cancellation
(а) In all its decisions with respect to the allocation and cancellation of special drawing 
rights the Fund shall seek to meet the long-term global need, as and when it arises, to sup­
plement existing reserve assets in such manner as will promote the attainment of its putposes 
and will avoid economic stagnation and deflation as well as excess demand and inflation in 
the world.
(б) The first decision to allocate special drawing rights shall take into account, as special 
considerations, a collective judgment that there is a global need to supplement reserves, and 
the attainment of a better balance of payments equilibrium, as well as the likelihood of a bet­
ter working of the adjustment process in the future.
Section 2. Allocation and cancellation
(a) Decisions of the Fund to allocate or cancel special drawing rights shall be made for 
basic periods which shall run consecutively and shall be five years in duration. The first basic 
period shall begin on the date of the first decision to allocate special drawing rights or such 
later date as may be specified in that decision. Any allocations or cancellations shall take place 
at yearly intervals.
(b) The rates at which allocations are to be made shall be expressed as percentages of 
quotas on the date of each decision to allocate. The rates at which special drawing rights are to 
be cancelled shall be expressed as percentages of net cumulative allocations of special draw­
ing rights on the date of each decision to cancel. The percentages shall be the same for all 
participants.
(c) In its decision for any basic period the Fund may provide, notwithstanding (a) and (b) 
above, that:
(i) the duration of the basic period shall be other than five years; or
(ii) the allocations or cancellations shall take place at other than yearly intervals; or
(iii) the basis for allocations or cancellations shall be the quotas or net cumulative allo­
cations on dates other than the dates of decisions to allocate or cancel.
(d) A member that becomes a participant after a basic period starts shall receive allo­
cations beginning with the next basic period in which allocations are made after it becomes a 
participant unless the Fund decides that the new participant shall start to receive allocations 
beginning with the next allocation after it becomes a participant. If the Fund decides that a 
member that becomes a participant during a basic period shall receive allocations during the 
remainder of that basic period and the participant was not a member on the dates established 
under (b) or (c) above, the Fund shall determine the basis on which these allocations to the 
participant shall be made.
(e) A participant shall receive allocations of special drawing rights made pursuant to any 
decision to allocate unless:
(i)
(ii)
the Governor for the participant did not vote in favour of the decision; and
the participant has notified the Fund in writing prior to the first allocation of special 
drawing rights under that decision that it does not wish special drawing rights to be 
allocated to it under the decision. On the request of a participant, the Fund may de­
cide to terminate the effect of the notice with respect to allocations of special drawing 
rights subsequent to the termination.
(f) 
If on the effective date of any cancellation the amount of special drawing rights held 
by a participant is less than its share of the special drawing rights that are to be cancelled, the 
participant shall eliminate its negative balance as promptly as its gross reserve position per­
mits and shall remain in consultation with the Fund for this purpose. Special drawing rights 
acquired by the participant after the effective date of the cancellation shall be applied against 
its negative balance and cancelled.
Section 3. Unexpected major developments
The Fund may change the rates or intervals of allocation or cancellation during the rest of 
a basic period or change the length of a basic period or start a new basic period, if at any time 
the Fund finds it desirable to do so because of unexpected major developments.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
SCHEDULE 1— continued
Section 4. Decisions on allocations and cancellations
(a) Decisions under Section 2 (a), (6), and (c) or Section 3 of this Article shall be made 
by the Board of Governors on the basis of proposals of the Managing Director concurred in by 
the Executive Board.
(b) Before making any proposal, the Managing Director, after having satisfied himself 
that it will be consistent with the provisions of Section 1 (a) of this Article, shall conduct such 
consultations as will enable him to ascertain that there is broad support among participants 
for the proposal. In addition, before making a proposal for the first allocation, the Managing 
Director shall satisfy himself that the provisions of Section 1 (b) of this Article have been met 
and that there is broad support among participants to begin allocations; he shall make a pro­
posal for the first allocation as soon after the establishment of the Special Drawing Rights De­
partment as he is so satisfied.
(c) The Managing Director shall make proposals:
(i) not later than six months before the end of each basic period;
(ii) if no decision has been taken with respect to allocation or cancellation for a basic 
period, whenever he is satisfied that the provisions of (b) above have been met;
(iii) when, in accordance with Section 3 of this Article, he considers that it would be desir­
able to change the rate or intervals of allocation or cancellation or change the length 
of a basic period or start a new basic period; or
(iv) within six months of a request by the Board of Governors or the Executive Board;
provided that, if under (i), (iii), or (iv) above the Managing Director ascertains that there is 
no proposal which he considers to be consistent with the provisions of Section 1 of this Article 
that has broad support among participants in accordance with (6) above, he shall report to the 
Board of Governors and to the Executive Board.
(d) An eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power shall be required for de­
cisions under Section 2 (a), (b), and (c) or Section 3 of this Article except for decisions under 
Section 3 with respect to a decrease in the rates of allocation.
ARTICLE XIX
OPERATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS IN SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS 
Section 1. Use of special drawing rights
Special drawing rights may be used in the operations and transactions authorized by or 
under this Agreement.
Section 2. Operations and transactions between participants
(a) 
A participant shall be entitled to use its special drawing rights to obtain an equivalent 
amount of currency from a participant designated under Section 5 of this Article.
(b) 
A participant, in agreement with another participant, may use its special drawing 
rights to obtain an equivalent amount of currency from the other participant.
(c) 
The Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting power, may prescribe op­
erations in which a participant is authorized to engage in agreement with another participant 
on such terms and conditions as the Fund deems appropriate. The terms and conditions shall 
be consistent with the effective functioning of the Special Drawing Rights Department and the 
proper use of special drawing rights in accordance with this Agreement.
(d) 
The Fund may make representations to a participant that enters into any operation or 
transaction under (b) or (c) above that in the judgment of the Fund may be prejudicial to the 
process of designation according to the principles of Section 5 of this Article or is otherwise in­
consistent with Article XXII. A participant that persists in entering into such operations or 
transactions shall be subject to Article XXIII, Section 2 (b).
Section 3. Requirement o f need
(a) 
In transactions under Section 2 (a) of this Article, except as otherwise provided in (c) 
below, a participant will be expected to use its special drawing rights only if it has a need be­
cause of its balance of payments or its reserve position or developments in its reserves, and not 
for the sole purpose of changing the composition of its reserves.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(b) The use of special drawing rights shall not be subject to challenge on the basis of the 
expectation in (a) above, but the Fund may make representations to a participant that fails to 
fulfill this expectation. A participant that persists in failing to fulfill this expectation shall be 
subject to Article XXIII, Section 2 (b).
(c) The Fund may waive the expectation in (a) above in any transactions in which a par­
ticipant uses special drawing rights to obtain an equivalent amount of currency from a partici­
pant designated under Section 5 of this Article that would promote reconstitution by the other 
participant under Section 6 (a) of this Article; prevent or reduce a negative balance of the 
other participant; or offset the effect of a failure by the other participant to fulfill the expec­
tation in (<z) above.
Section 4. Obligation to provide currency
(a) A participant designated by the Fund under Section 5 of this Article shall provide on 
demand a freely usable currency to a participant using special drawing rights under Section 
2 (a) of this Article. A participant’s obligation to provide currency shall not extend beyond the 
point at which its holdings of special drawing rights in excess of its net cumulative allocation 
are equal to twice its net cumulative allocation or such higher limit as may be agreed between 
a participant and the Fund.
(b) A participant may provide currency in excess of the obligatory limit or any agreed 
higher limit.
Section 5. Designation ofparticipants to provide currency
(a) The Fund shall ensure that a participant will be able to use its special drawing rights 
by designating participants to provide currency for specified amounts of special drawing rights 
for the purposes of Sections 2 (a) and 4 of this Article. Designations shall be made in accord­
ance with the following general principles supplemented by such other principles as the Fund 
may adopt from time to time:
(i) A participant shall be subject to designation if its balance of payments and gross re­
serve position is sufficiently strong, but this will not preclude the possibility that a par­
ticipant with a strong reserve position will be designated even though it has a moder­
ate balance of payments deficit. Participants shall be designated in such manner as 
will promote over time a balanced distribution of holdings of special drawing rights 
among them.
(ii) Participants shall be subject to designation in order to promote reconstitution under 
Section 6 (a) of this Article, to reduce negative balances in holdings of special draw­
ing rights, or to offset the effect of failures to fulfill the expectation in Section 3 (a) of 
this Article.
(iii) In designating participants the Fund normally shall give priority to those that need to 
acquire special drawing rights to meet the objectives of designation under (ii) above.
(b) In order to promote over time a balanced distribution of holdings of special drawing 
rights under (a) (i) above, the Fund shall apply the rules for designation in Schedule F or such 
rules as may be adopted under (c) below.
(c) The rules for designation may be reviewed at any time and new rules shall be adopted 
if necessary. Unless new rules are adopted, the rules in force at the time of the review shall 
continue to apply.
Section 6. Reconstitution
(a) Participants that use their special drawing rights shall reconstitute their holdings of 
them in accordance with the rules for reconstitution in Schedule G or such rules as may be 
adopted under (b) below.
(b) The rules for reconstitution may be reviewed at any time and new rules shall be 
adopted if necessary. Unless new rules are adopted or a decision is made to abrogate rules for 
reconstitution, the rules in force at the time of review shall continue to apply. A seventy per­
cent majority of the total voting power shall be required for decisions to adopt, modify, or ab­
rogate the rules for reconstitution.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
Section 7. Exchange rates
(a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) below, the exchange rates for transactions be­
tween participants under Section 2 (a) and (b) of this Article shall be such that participants 
using special drawing rights shall receive the same value whatever currencies might be pro­
vided and whichever participants provide those currencies, and the Fund shall adopt regu­
lations to give effect to this principle.
(b) The Fund, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, may adopt 
policies under which in exceptional circumstances the Fund, by a seventy percent majority of 
the total voting power, may authorize participants entering into transactions under Section 
2 (b) of this Article to agree on exchange rates other than those applicable under (a) above.
(c) The Fund shall consult a participant on the procedure for determining rates of 
exchange for its currency.
(d) For the purpose of this provision the term participant includes a terminating 
participant.
ARTICLE XX
SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS DEPARTMENT INTEREST AND CHARGES 
Section 1 .Interest
Interest at the same rate for all holders shall be paid by the Fund to each holder on the 
amount of its holdings of special drawing rights. The Fund shall pay the amount due to each 
holder whether or not sufficient charges are received to meet the payment of interest.
Section 2. Charges
Charges at the same rate for all participants shall be paid to the Fund by each participant 
on the amount of its net cumulative allocation of special drawing rights plus any negative bal­
ance of the participant or unpaid charges.
Section 3. Rate of interest and charges
The Fund shall determine the rate of interest by a seventy percent majority of the total 
voting power. The rate of charges shall be equal to the rate of interest.
Section 4. Assessments
When it is decided under Article XVI, Section 2 that reimbursement shall be made, the 
Fund shall levy assessments for this purpose at the same rate for all participants on their net 
cumulative allocations.
Section 5. Payment o f interest, charges, and assessments
Interest, charges, and assessments shall be paid in special drawing rights. A participant 
that needs special drawing rights to pay any charge or assessment shall be obligated and en­
titled to obtain them, for currency acceptable to the Fund, in a transaction with the Fund con­
ducted through the General Resources Account. If sufficient special drawing rights cannot be 
obtained in this way, the participant shall be obligated and entitled to obtain them with a 
freely usable currency from a participant which the Fund shall specify. Special drawing rights 
acquired by a participant after the date for payment shall be applied against its unpaid 
charges and cancelled.
ARTICLE XXI
ADMINISTRATION OF THE GENERAL DEPARTMENT AND THE SPECIAL 
DRAWING RIGHTS DEPARTMENT
(a) 
The General Department and the Special Drawing Rights Department shall be 
administered in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, subject to the following 
provisions:
(i) For meetings of or decisions by the Board of Governors on matters pertaining exclus­
ively to the Special Drawing Rights Department only requests by, or the presence and 
the votes of, Governors appointed by members that are participants shall be counted 
for the purpose of calling meetings and determining whether a quorum exists or 
whether a decision is made by the required majority.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(ii) For decisions by the Executive Board on matters pertaining exclusively to the Special 
Drawing Rights Department only Executive Directors appointed or elected by at least 
one member that is a participant shall be entitled to vote. Each of these Executive Di­
rectors shall be entitled to cast the number of votes allotted to the member which is a 
participant that appointed him or to the members that are participants whose votes 
counted towards his election. Only the presence of Executive Directors appointed or 
elected by members that are participants and the votes allotted to members that are 
participants shall be counted for the purpose of determining whether a quorum exists 
or whether a decision is made by the required majority. For the purposes of this pro­
vision, an agreement under Article XII, Section 3 (/) (ii) by a member that is a par­
ticipant shall entitle an appointed Executive Director to vote and cast the number of 
votes allotted to the member.
(iii) Questions of the general administration of the Fund, including reimbursement under 
Article XVI, Section 2, and any question whether a matter pertains to both Depart­
ments or exclusively to the Special Drawing Rights Department shall be decided as if 
they pertained exclusively to the General Department. Decisions with respect to the 
method of valuation of the special drawing right, the acceptance and holding of 
special drawing rights in the General Resources Account of the General Department 
and the use of them, and other decisions affecting the operations and transactions con­
ducted through both the General Resources Account of the General Department and 
the Special Drawing Rights Department shall be made by the majorities required for 
decisions on matters pertaining exclusively to each Department. A decision on a mat­
ter pertaining to the Special Drawing Rights Department shall so indicate.
(b) 
In addition to the privileges and immunities that are accorded under Article IX of this 
Agreement, no tax of any kind shall be levied on special drawing rights or on operations or 
transactions in special drawing rights.
(c) 
A question of interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement on matters pertaining 
exclusively to the Special Drawing Rights Department shall be submitted to the Executive 
Board pursuant to Article XXIX (a) only on the request of a participant. In any case where the 
Executive Board has given a decision on a question of interpretation pertaining exclusively to 
the Special Drawing Rights Department only a participant may require that the question be 
referred to the Board of Governors under Article XXIX (6). The Board of Governors shall de­
cide whether a Governor appointed by a member that is not a participant shall be entitled to 
vote in the Committee on Interpretation on questions pertaining exclusively to the Special 
Drawing Rights Department.
(d) 
Whenever a disagreement arises between the Fund and a participant that has ter­
minated its participation in the Special Drawing Rights Department or between the Fund and 
any participant during the liquidation of the Special Drawing Rights Department with respect 
to any matter arising exclusively from participation in the Special Drawing Rights Depart­
ment, the disagreement shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the procedures in 
Article XXIX (c).
ARTICLE XXII
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF PARTICIPANTS 
In addition to the obligations assumed with respect to special drawing rights under other 
articles of this Agreement, each participant undertakes to collaborate with the Fund and with 
other participants in order to facilitate the effective functioning of the Special Drawing Rights 
Department and the proper use of special drawing rights in accordance with this Agreement 
and with the objective of making the special drawing right the principal reserve asset in the 
international monetary system.
ARTICLE XXIII
SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS IN SPECIAL DRAWING
RIGHTS
Section l. Emergency provisions
In the event of an emergency or the development of unforeseen circumstances threatening 
the activities of the Fund with respect to the Special Drawing Rights Department, the Execu­
tive Board, by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, may suspend for a 
period of not more than one year the operation of any of the provisions relating to operations
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
and transactions in special drawing rights, and the provisions of Article XXVII, Section 1 (b),
(c), and (d) shall then apply.
Section 2. Failure to fulfill obligations
(a) If the Fund finds that a participant has failed to fulfill its obligations under Article 
XIX, Section 4, the right of the participant to use its special drawing rights shall be suspended 
unless the Fund otherwise decides.
(b) If the Fund finds that a participant has failed to fulfill any other obligation with re­
spect to special drawing rights, the Fund may suspend the right of the participant to use 
special drawing rights it acquires after the suspension.
(c) Regulations shall be adopted to ensure that before action is taken against any partici­
pant under (a) or (b) above, the participant shall be informed immediately of the complaint 
against it and give an adequate opportunity for stating its case, both orally and in writing. 
Whenever the participant is thus informed of a complaint relating to (a) above, it shall not use 
special drawing rights pending the disposition of the complaint.
(d) Suspension under (a) or (b) above or limitation under (c) above shall not affect a par­
ticipant’s obligation to provide currency in accordance with Article XIX, Section 4.
(e) The Fund may at any time terminate a suspension under (a) or (b) above, provided 
that a suspension imposed on a participant under (b) above for failure to fulfull the obli­
gations under Article XIX, Section 6(a) shall not be terminated until one hundred eighty days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter during which the participant complies with the rules 
for reconstitution.
(/) The right of a participant to use its special drawing rights shall not be suspended be­
cause it has become ineligible to use the Fund’s general resources under Article V, Section 5, 
Article VI, Section 1, or Article XXVI, Section 2(a). Article XXVI, Section 2 shall not apply 
because a participant has failed to fulfill any obligations with respect to special drawing rights.
ARTICLE XXIV
TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION 
Section 1. Right to terminate participation
(a) Any participant may terminate its participation in the Special Drawing Rights De­
partment at any time by transmitting a notice in writing to the Fund at its principal office. Ter­
mination shall become effective on the date the notice is received.
(b) A participant that withdraws from membership in the Fund shall be deemed to have 
simultaneously terminated its participation in the Special Drawing Rights Department.
Section 2. Settlement on termination
(a) 
When a participant terminates its participation in the Special Drawing Rights Depart­
ment, all operations and transactions by the terminating participant in special drawing rights 
shall cease except as otherwise permitted under an agreement made pursuant to (c) below in 
order to facilitate a settlement or as provided in Sections 3, 5, and 6 of this Article or in Sched­
ule H. Interest and charges that accrued to the date of termination and assessments levied be­
fore that date but not paid shall be paid in special drawing rights.
(b) 
The Fund shall be obligated to redeem all special drawing rights held by the terminat­
ing participant, and the terminating participant shall be obligated to pay to the Fund an 
amount equal to its net cumulative allocation and any other amounts that may be due and 
payable because of its participation in the Special Drawing Rights Department. These obli­
gations shall be set off against each other and the amount of special drawing rights held by the 
terminating participant that is used in the setoff to extinguish its obligation to the Fund shall 
be cancelled.
(c) 
A settlement shall be made with reasonable despatch by agreement between the ter­
minating participant and the Fund with respect to any obligation of the terminating partici­
pant or the Fund after the setoff in (b) above. If agreement on a settlement is not reached 
promptly the provisions of Schedule H shall apply.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
Section 3. Interest and charges
After the date of termination the Fund shall pay interest on any outstanding balance of 
special drawing rights held by a terminating participant and the terminating participant shall 
pay charges on any outstanding obligation owed to the Fund at the times and rates prescribed 
under Article XX. Payment shall be made in special drawing rights. A terminating participant 
shall be entitled to obtain special drawing rights with a freely usable currency to pay charges 
or assessments in a transaction with a participant specified by the Fund or by agreement from 
any other holder, or to dispose of special drawing rights received as interest in a transaction 
with any participant designated under Article XIX, Section 5 or by agreement with any other 
holder.
Section 4. Settlement o f obligation to the Fund
Currency received by the Fund from a terminating participant shall be used by the Fund to 
redeem special drawing rights held by participants in proportion to the amount by which each 
participant’s holdings of special drawing rights exceed its net cumulative allocation at the time 
the currency is received by the Fund. Special drawing rights so redeemed and special drawing 
rights obtained by a terminating participant under the provisions of this Agreement to meet 
any installment due under an agreement on settlement or under Schedule H and set off against 
that installment shall be cancelled.
Section 5. Settlement o f obligation to a terminating participant
Whenever the Fund is required to redeem special drawing rights held by a terminating 
participant, redemption shall be made with currency provided by participants specified by the 
Fund. These participants shall be specified in accordance with the principles in Article XIX, 
Section 5. Each specified participant shall provide at its option the currency of the terminating 
participant or a freely usable currency to the Fund and shall receive an equivalent amount of 
special drawing rights. However, a terminating participant may use its special drawing rights 
to obtain its own currency, a freely usable currency, or any other asset from any holder, if the 
Fund so permits.
Section 6. General Resources Account transactions
In order to facilitate settlement with a terminating participant, the Fund may decide that a 
terminating participant shall:
(i) use any special drawing rights held by it after the setoff in Section 2 (b) of this Article, 
when they are to be redeemed, in a transaction with the Fund conducted through the 
General Resources Account to obtain its own currency or a freely usable currency at 
the option of the Fund; or
(ii) obtain special drawing rights in a transaction with the Fund conducted through the 
General Resources Account for a currency acceptable to the Fund to meet any 
charges or installment due under an agreement or the provisions of Schedule H.
ARTICLE XXV
LIQUIDATION OF THE SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS DEPARTMENT 
(<z) The Special Drawing Rights Department may not be liquidated except by decision of 
the Board of Governors. In an emergency, if the Executive Board decides that liquidation of 
the Special Drawing Rights Department may be necessary, it may temporarily suspend allo­
cations or cancellations and all operations and transactions in special drawing rights pending 
decision by the Board of Governors. A decision by the Board of Governors to liquidate the 
Fund shall be a decision to liquidate both the General Department and the Special Drawing 
Rights Department.
(b) 
If the Board of Governors decides to liquidate the Special Drawing Rights Depart­
ment, all allocations or cancellations and all operations and transactions in special drawing 
rights and the activities of the Fund with respect to the Special Drawing Rights Department 
shall cease except those incidental to the orderly discharge of the obligations of participants 
and of the Fund with respect to special drawing rights, and all obligations of the Fund and of 
participants under this Agreement with respect to special drawing rights shall cease except 
those set out in this Article, Article XX, Article XXI (d), Article XXIV, Article XXIX (c), and 
Schedule H, or any agreement reached under Article XXIV subject to paragraph 4 of Sched­
ule H, and Schedule I.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(c) Upon liquidation of the Special Drawing Rights Department, interest and charges 
that accrued to the date of liquidation and assessments levied before that date but not paid 
shall be paid in special drawing rights. The Fund shall be obligated to redeem all special 
drawing rights held by holders, and each participant shall be obligated to pay the Fund an 
amount equal to its net cumulative allocation of special drawing rights and such other 
amounts as may be due and payable because of its participation in the Special Drawing Rights 
Department.
(d) Liquidation of the Special Drawing Rights Department shall be administered in ac­
cordance with the provisions of Schedule I.
ARTICLE XXVI
WITHDRAWAL FROM MEMBERSHIP 
Section 1. Right of members to withdraw
Any member may withdraw from the Fund at any time by transmitting a notice in writing 
to the Fund at its principal office. Withdrawal shall become effective on the date such notice is 
received.
Section 2. Compulsory withdrawal
(а) If a member fails to fulfill any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Fund may 
declare the member ineligible to use the general resources of the Fund. Nothing in this Section 
shall be deemed to limit the provisions of Article V, Section 5 or Article VI, Section 1.
(б) If, after the expiration of a reasonable period the member persists in its failure to fulfill 
any of its obligations under this Agreement, that member may be required to withdraw from 
membership in the Fund by a decision of the Board of Governors carried by a majority of the 
Governors having eighty-five percent of the total voting power.
(c) 
Regulations shall be adopted to ensure that before action is taken against any member 
under (a) or (b) above, the member shall be informed in reasonable time of the complaint 
against it and given an adequate opportunity for stating its case, both orally and in writing.
Section 3. Settlement of accounts with members withdrawing
When a member withdraws from the Fund, normal operations and transactions of the 
Fund in its currency shall cease and settlement of all accounts between it and the Fund shall 
be made with reasonable despatch by agreement between it and the Fund. If agreement is not 
reached promptly, the provisions of Schedule J shall apply to the settlement of accounts.
ARTICLE XXVII 
EMERGENCY PROVISIONS 
Section 1. Temporary suspension
(a) In the event of an emergency or the development of unforeseen circumstances threat­
ening the activities of the Fund, the Executive Board, by an eighty-five percent majority of the 
total voting power, may suspend for a period of not more than one year the operation of any of 
the following provisions:
(i) Article V, Sections 2, 3, 7, 8 (a) (i) and (e);
(ii) Article VI, Section 2;
(iii) Article XI, Section 1;
(iv) Schedule C, paragraph 5.
(b) A suspension of the operation of a provision under (a) above may not be extended be­
yond one year except by the Board of Governors which, by an eighty-five percent majority of 
the total voting power, may extend a suspension for an additional period of not more than two 
years if it finds that the emergency or unforeseen circumstances referred to in (a) above con­
tinue to exist.
(c) The Executive Board may, by a majority of the total voting power, terminate such 
suspension at any time.
(d) The Fund may adopt rules with respect to the subject matter of a provision during the 
period in which its operation is suspended.
Section 2. Liquidation of the Fund
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1—continued
(a) The Fund may not be liquidated except by decision of the Board of Governors. In an 
emergency, if the Executive Board decides that liquidation of the Fund may be necessary, it 
may temporarily suspend all operations and transactions, pending decision by the Board of 
Governors.
(b) If the Board of Governors decides to liquidate the Fund, the Fund shall forthwith 
cease to engage in any activities except those incidental to the orderly collection and liqui­
dation of its assets and the settlement of its liabilities, and all obligations of members under 
this Agreement shall cease except those set out in this Article, in Article XXIX (c), in Schedule 
J, paragraph 7, and in Schedule K.
(c) 
Liquidation shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of Schedule K.
ARTICLE XXVIII 
AMENDMENTS
(a) Any proposal to introduce modifications in this Agreement, whether emanating from 
a member, a Governor, or the Executive Board, shall be communicated to the chairman of the 
Board of Governors who shall bring the proposal before the Board of Governors. If the 
proposed amendment is approved by the Board of Governors, the Fund shall, by circular let­
ter or telegram, ask all members whether they accept the proposed amendment. When three- 
fifths of the members, having eighty-five percent of the total voting power, have accepted the 
proposed amendment, the Fund shall certify the fact by a formal communication addressed to 
all members.
(b) Notwithstanding (a) above, acceptance by all members is required in the case of any 
amendment modifying:
(i) the right to withdraw from the Fund (Article XXVI, Section 1);
(ii) the provision that no change in a member’s quota shall be made without its consent 
(Article III, Section 2 (d)); and
(iii) the provision that no change may be made in the par value of a member’s currency 
except on the proposal of that member (Schedule C, paragraph 6).
(c) Amendments shall enter into force for all members three months after the date of the 
formal communication unless a shorter period is specified in the circular letter or telegram.
ARTICLE XXIX 
INTERPRETATION
(a) Any question of interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement arising between 
any member and the Fund or between any members of the Fund shall be submitted to the 
Executive Board for its decision. If the question particularly affects any member not entitled to 
appoint an Executive Director, it shall be entitled to representation in accordance with Article 
XII, Section 3 (J).
(b) In any case where the Executive Board has given a decision under (a) above, any 
member may require, within three months from the date of the decision, that the question be 
referred to the Board of Governors, whose decision shall be final. Any question referred to the 
Board of Governors shall be considered by a Committee on Interpretation of the Board of 
Governors. Each Committee member shall have one vote. The Board of Governors shall 
establish the membership, procedures, and voting majorities of the Committee. A decision of 
the Committee shall be the decision of the Board of Governors unless the Board of Governors, 
by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, decides otherwise. Pending the 
result of the reference to the Board of Governors the Fund may, so far as it deems necessary, 
act on the basis of the decision of the Executive Board.
(c) Whenever a disagreement arises between the Fund and a member which has with­
drawn, or between the Fund and any member during liquidation of the Fund, such disagree­
ment shall be submitted to arbitration by a tribunal of three arbitrators, one appointed by the 
Fund, another by the member or withdrawing member, and an umpire who, unless the parties 
otherwise agree, shall be appointed by the President of the International Court of Justice or 
such other authority as may have been prescribed by regulation adopted by the Fund. The 
umpire shall have full power to settle all questions of procedure in any case where the parties 
are in disagreement with respect thereto.
1978 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
ARTICLE XXX 
EXPLANATION OF TERMS
In interpreting the provisions of this Agreement the Fund and its members shall be guided 
by the following provisions:
(a) The Fund’s holdings of a member’s currency in the General Resources Account shall 
include any securities accepted by the Fund under Article III, Section 4.
(6) Stand-by arrangement means a decision of the Fund by which a member is assured 
that it will be able to make purchases from the General Resources Account in accordance with 
the terms of the decision during a specified period and up to a specified amount.
(c) 
Reserve tranche purchase means a purchase by a member of special drawing rights or 
the currency of another member in exchange for its own currency which does not cause the 
Fund’s holdings of the member’s currency in the General Resources Account to exceed its 
quota, provided that for the purposes of this definition the Fund may exclude purchases and 
holdings under:
(i) policies on the use of its general resources for compensatory financing of export 
fluctuations;
(ii) policies on the use of its general resources in connection with the financing of contri­
butions to international buffer stocks of primary products; and 
,
(iii) other policies on the use of its general resources in respect of which the Fund decides, 
by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, that an exclusion shall be 
made.
(d) Payments for current transactions means payments which are not for the purpose of 
transferring capital, and includes, without limitation:
(1) all payments due in connection with foreign trade, other current business, including 
services, and normal short-term banking and credit facilities;
(2) payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments;
(3) payments of moderate amount for amortization of loans or for depreciation of direct 
investments; and
(4) moderate remittances for family living expenses.
The Fund may, after consultation with the members concerned, determine whether certain 
specific transactions are to be considered current transactions or capital transactions.
(e) Net cumulative allocation of special drawing rights means the total amount of special 
drawing rights allocated to a participant less its share of special drawing rights that have been 
cancelled under Article XVlII, Section 2(a).
( / )  A freely usable currency means a member’s currency that the Fund determines (i) is, 
in fact, widely used to make payments for international transactions, and (ii) is widely traded 
in the principal exchange markets.
(g) 
Members that were members on August 31, 1975 shall be deemed to include a 
member that accepted membership after that date pursuant to a resolution of the Board of 
Governors adopted before that date. 
.
(A) Transactions of the Fund means exchanges of monetary assets by the Fund for other 
monetary assets. Operations of the Fund means other uses or receipts of monetary assets by 
the Fund.
(/) Transactions in special drawing rights means exchanges of special drawing rights for 
other monetary assets. Operations in special drawing rights means other .uses of special draw­
ing rights.
ARTICLE XXXI 
FINAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 .Entry into force
This Agreement shall enter into force when it has been signed on behalf of governments 
having sixty-five percent of the total of the quotas set forth in Schedule A and when the instru­
ments referred to in Section 2 (a) of this Article have been deposited on their behalf, but in no 
event shall this Agreement enter into force before May 1,1945.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1-continued
Section 2. Signature
(a) Each government on whose behalf this Agreement is signed shall deposit with the 
Government of the United States of America an instrument setting forth that it has accepted 
this Agreement in accordance with its law and has taken all steps necessary to enable it to 
carry out all of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) Each country shall become a member of the Fund as from the date of the deposit on 
its behalf of the instrument referred to in (a) above, except that no country shall become a 
member before this Agreement enters into force under Section 1 of this Article.
(c) The Government of the United States of America shall inform the governments of all 
countries whose names are set forth in Schedule A, and the governments of all countries 
whose membership is approved in accordance with Article II, Section 2, of all signatures of 
this Agreement and of the deposit of all instruments referred to in (a) above.
(d) At the time this Agreement is signed on its behalf, each government shall transmit to 
the Government of the United States of America one-hundredth of one percent of its total 
subscription in gold or United States dollars for the purpose of meeting administrative ex­
penses of the Fund. The Government of the United States of America shall hold such funds in 
a special deposit account and shall transmit them to the Board of Governors of the Fund when 
the initial meeting has been called. If this Agreement has not come into force by December 31, 
1945, the Government of the United States of America shall return such funds to the govern­
ments that transmitted them.
(e) This Agreement shall remain open for signature at Washington on behalf of the 
governments of the countries whose names are set forth in Schedule A until December 31, 
1945.
( / )  After December 31,1945, this Agreement shall be open for signature on behalf of the 
government of any country whose membership has been approved in accordance with Article 
II, Section 2.
(g) By their signature of this Agreement, all governments accept it both on their own be­
half and in respect of all their colonies, overseas territories, all territories under their protec­
tion, suzerainty, or authority, and all territories in respect of which they exercise a mandate.
(h) Subsection (d) above shall come into force with regard to each signatory government 
as from the date of its signature.
Done at Washington, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the 
Government of the United States of America, which shall transmit certified copies to all 
governments whose names are set forth in Schedule A and to all governments whose member­
ship is approved in accordance with Article II, Section 2.
SCHEDULE A 
QUOTAS
(In millions of United States dollars)
Australia 
Belgium 
Bolivia 
Brazil 
Canada 
Chile 
China 
Colombia 
Costa Rica 
Cuba
Czechoslovakia 
Denmark* 
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
. . 
.
Egypt 
. . . .  
El Salvador 
. 
.
Ethiopia 
........................................ 
6
F r a n c e .............................................450
I r a n .................................................. 
25
I r a q .................................................. 
8
L ib e r ia ...................................................... 5
L u x em b o u rg ................................... 
10
M e x ic o ............................................. 
90
N e th e rla n d s ........................................275
New Zealand 
.............................. 
50
Nicaragua 
................................... 
2
Norway 
........................................ 
50
Panama 
................................................. 5
P a r a g u a y ........................................ 
2
Peru 
............................................. 
25
Philippine Commonwealth 
. . .  
15
P o la n d ...................................................125
Union of South A fr ic a ..........................100
Union of Soviet Socialist
Republic 
...................................... 1200
United Kingdom 
............................ 1300
200
225
10
150
300
50
550
50
5
50
125
5
5
45
2.5
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
G r e e c e .........................
. . . .  
40
United States 
. . .
. . . .  2750
Guatemala 
. 
. 
. 
.
. . . .  
5
Uruguay 
. . . . .
. . . .  
15
Haiti 
.........................
. . . .  
5
V enezuela....................
. . . .  
15
H o n d u ra s....................
. . . .  
2.5
Yugoslavia 
. . . .
. . . .  
60
Ic e la n d .........................
. . . .  
1
India 
.........................
. . . .  
400
* The quota of Denmark shall be determined by the Fund after the Danish Government has declared 
its readiness to sign this Agreement but before signature takes place.
SCHEDULEB
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO REPURCHASE, PAYMENT
OF ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIPTIONS, GOLD, AND CERTAIN OPERATIONAL
MATTERS
1. Repurchase obligations that have accrued pursuant to Article V, Section 7 (b) before 
the date of the second amendment of this Agreement and that remain undischarged at that 
date shall be discharged not later than the date or dates at which the obligations had to be dis­
charged in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement before the second amendment.
2. A member shall discharge with special drawing rights any obligation to pay gold to the 
Fund in repurchase or as a subscription that is outstanding at the date of the second amend­
ment of this Agreement, but the Fund may prescribe that these payments may be made in 
whole or in part in the currencies of other members specified by the Fund. A non-participant 
shall discharge an obligation that must be paid in special drawing rights pursuant to this pro­
vision with the currencies of other members specified by the Fund.
3. For the purposes of 2 above 0.888 671 gram of fine gold shall be equivalent to one 
special drawing right, and the amount of currency payable under 2 above shall be determined 
on that basis and on the basis of the value of the currency in terms of the special drawing right 
at the date of discharge.
4. A member’s currency held by the Fund in excess of seventy-five percent of the 
member's quota at the date of the second amendment of this Agreement and not subject to re­
purchase under 1 above shall be repurchased in accordance with the following rules:
(i) Holdings that resulted from a purchase shall be repurchased in accordance with the 
policy on the use of the Fund’s general resources under which the purchase was made.
(ii) Other holdings shall be repurchased not later than four years after the date of the sec­
ond amendment of this Agreement.
5. Repurchases under 1 above that are not subject to 2 above, repurchases under 4 above, 
and any specification of currencies under 2 above shall be in accordance with Article V, Sec­
tion 7 (/).
6. All rules and regulations, rates, procedures, and decisions in effect at the date of the sec­
ond amendment of this Agreement shall remain in effect until they are changed in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement.
7. To the extent that arrangements equivalent in effect to (a) and (6) below have not been 
completed before the date of the second amendment of this Agreement, the Fund shall
(а) sell up to 25 million ounces of fine gold held by it on August 31, 1975 to those 
members that were members on that date and that agree to buy it, in proportion to 
their quotas on that date. The sale to a member under this subparagraph (a) shall be 
made in exchange for its currency and at a price equivalent at the time of sale to one 
special drawing right per 0.888 671 gram of fine gold, and
(б) sell up to 25 million ounces of fine gold held by it on August 31, 1975 for the benefit 
of developing members that were members on that date, provided, however, that the 
part of any profits or surplus value of the gold that corresponds to the proportion of 
such a member’s quota on August 31, 1975 to the total of the quotas of all members 
on that date shall be transferred directly to each such member. The requirements 
under Article V, Section 12 (c) that the Fund consult a member, obtain a member’s 
concurrence, or exchange a member’s currency for the currencies of other members in
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
certain circumstances shall apply with respect to currency received by the Fund as a 
result of sales of gold under this provision, other than sales to a member in return for 
its own currency, and placed in the General Resources Account.
Upon the sale of gold under this paragraph 7, an amount of the proceeds in the currencies 
received equivalent at the time of sale to one special drawing right per 0.888 671 gram of fine 
gold shall be placed in the General Resources Account and other assets held by the Fund 
under arrangements pursuant to (b) above shall be held separately from the general resources 
of the Fund. Assets that remain subject to disposition by the Fund upon termination of ar­
rangements pursuant to (b) above shall be transferred to the Special Disbursement Account.
SCHEDULEC 
PAR VALUES
1. The Fund shall notify members that par values may be established for the purposes of 
this Agreement, in accordance with Article IV, Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 and this Schedule, in 
terms of the special drawing right, or in terms of such other common denominator as is 
prescribed by the Fund. The common denominator shall not be gold or a currency.
2. A member that intends to establish a par value for its currency shall propose a par value 
to the Fund within a reasonable time after notice is given under 1 above.
3. Any member that does not intend to establish a par value for its currency under 1 above 
shall consult with the Fund and ensure that its exchange arrangements are consistent with the 
purposes of the Fund and are adequate to fulfil its obligations under Article IV, Section 1.
4. The Fund shall concur in or object to a proposed par value within a reasonable period 
after receipt of the proposal. A proposed par value shall not take effect for the purposes of this 
Agreement if the Fund objects to it, and the member shall be subject to 3 above. The Fund 
shall not object because of the domestic social or political policies of the member proposing 
the par value.
5. Each member that has a par value for its currency undertakes to apply appropriate 
measures consistent with this agreement in order to ensure that the maximum and the mini­
mum rates for spot exchange transactions taking place within its territories between its cur­
rency and the currencies of other members maintaining par values shall not differ from parity 
by more than four and one-half percent or by such other margin or margins as the Fund may 
adopt by an eighty-five per cent majority of the total voting power.
6. A member shall not propose a change in the par value of its currency except to correct, 
or prevent the emergence of, a fundamental disequilibrium. A change may be made only on 
the proposal of the member and only after consultation with the Fund.
7. When a change is proposed, the Fund shall concur in or object to the proposed par 
value within a reasonable period after receipt of the proposal. The Fund shall concur if it is 
satisfied that the change is necessary to correct, or prevent the emergence of, a fundamental 
disequilibrium. The Fund shall not object because of the domestic social or political policies of 
the member proposing the change. A proposed change in par value shall not take effect for the 
purposes of this Agreement if the Fund objects to it. If a member changes the par value of its 
currency despite the objection of the Fund, the member shall be subject to Article XXVI, Sec­
tion 2. Maintenance of an unrealistic par value by a member shall be discouraged by the 
Fund.
8. The par value of a member’s currency established under this Agreement shall cease to 
exist for the purposes of this Agreement if the member informs the Fund that it intends to ter­
minate the par value. The Fund may object to the termination of a par value by a decision 
taken by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power. If a member terminates a 
par value for its currency despite the objection of the Fund, the member shall be subject to 
Article XXVI, Section 2. A par value established under this Agreement shall cease to exist for 
the purposes of this Agreement if the member terminates the par value despite the objection 
of the Fund, or if the Fund finds that the member does not maintain rates for a substantial vol­
ume of exchange transactions in accordance with 5 above, provided that the Fund may not 
make such finding unless it has consulted the member and given it sixty days notice of the 
Fund’s intention to consider whether to make a finding.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
9. If the par value of the currency of a member has ceased to exist under 8 above, the 
member shall consult with the Fund and ensure that its exchange arrangements are consistent 
with the purposes of the Fund and are adequate to fulfil its obligations under Article IV, Sec­
tion 1.
10. A member for whose currency the par value has ceased to exist under 8 above may, at 
any time, propose a new par value for its currency.
11. Notwithstanding 6 above, the Fund, by a seventy percent majority of the total voting 
power, may make uniform proportionate changes in all par values if the special drawing right 
is the common denominator and the changes will not affect the value of the special drawing 
right. The par value of a member’s currency shall, however, not be changed under this pro­
vision if, within seven days after the Fund’s action, the member informs the Fund that it does 
not wish the par value of its currency to be changed by such action.
SCHEDULE D
COUNCIL
1. (a) Each member that appoints an Executive Director and each group of members 
that has the number of votes allotted to them cast by an elected Executive Director 
shall appoint to the Council one Councillor, who shall be a Governor, Minister in 
the Government of a member, or person of comparable rank, and may appoint 
not more than seven Associates. The Board of Governors may change, by an 
eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power, the number of Associates 
who may be appointed. A Councillor or Associate shall serve until a new appoint­
ment is made or until the next regular election of Executive Directors, whichever 
shall occur sooner.
(b) Executive Directors, or in their absence their Alternates, and Associates shall be 
entitled to attend meetings of the Council, unless the Council decides to hold a re­
stricted session. Each member and each group of members that appoints a Coun­
cillor shall appoint an Alternate who shall be entitled to attend a meeting of the 
Council when the Councillor is not present, and shall have full power to act for the 
Councillor.
2. (a) The Council shall supervise the management and adaptation of the international 
monetary system, including the continuing operation of the adjustment process 
and developments in global liquidity, and in this connection shall review develop­
ments in the transfer of real resources to developing countries.
(b) The Council shall consider proposals pursuant to Article XXVIII (a) to amend the 
Articles of Agreement.
3. (a) The Board of Governors may delegate to the Council authority to exercise any 
powers of the Board of Governors except the powers conferred directly by this 
Agreement on the Board of Governors.
(b) Each Councillor shall be entitled to cast the number of votes allotted under Article 
XII, Section 5 to the member or group of members appointing him. A Councillor 
appointed by a group of members may cast separately the votes allotted to each 
member in the group. If the number of votes allotted to a member cannot be cast 
by an Executive Director, the member may make arrangements with a Councillor 
for casting the number of votes allotted to the member.
(c) The Council shall not take any action pursuant to powers delegated by the Board 
of Governors that is inconsistent with any action taken by the Board of Governors 
and the Executive Board shall not take any action pursuant to powers delegated 
by the Board of Governors that is inconsistent with any action taken either by the 
Board of Governors or the Council.
4. 
The Council shall select a Councillor as chairman, shall adopt regulations as may be 
necessary or appropriate to perform its functions, and shall determine any aspect of its pro­
cedure. The Council shall hold such meetings as may be provided for by the Council or called 
by the Executive Board.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
5. (a) The Council shall have powers corresponding to those of the Executive Board
under the following provisions: Article XII, Section 2 (c), if), (g), and (/'); Article 
XVIII, Section 4(a) and Section 4 (c) (iv); Article XXIII, Section 1; and Article 
XXVII, Section 1(a).
(b) For decisions by the Council on matters pertaining exclusively to the Special 
Drawing Rights Department only Councillors appointed by a member that is a 
participant or a group of members at least one member of which is a participant 
shall be entitled to vote. Each of these Councillors shall be entitled to cast the 
number of votes allotted to the member which is a participant that appointed him 
or to the members that are participants in the group of members that appointed 
him, and may cast the votes allotted to a participant with which arrangements 
have been made pursuant to the last sentence of 3 (b) above.
(c) The Council may by regulation establish a procedure whereby the Executive 
Board may obtain a vote of the Councillors on a specific question without a meet­
ing of the Council when in the judgment of the Executive Board an action must be 
taken by the Council which should not be postponed until the next meeting of the 
Council and which does not warrant the calling of a special meeting.
(d) Article IX, Section 8 shall apply to Councillors, their Alternates, and Associates, 
and to any other person entitled to attend a meeting of the Council.
(e) For the purposes of (b) and 3 (b) above, an agreement under Article XII, Section 
3 (/) (ii) by a member, or by a member that is a participant, shall entitle a Council­
lor to vote and cast the number of votes allotted to the member.
6. The first sentence of Article XII, Section 2(a) shall be deemed to include a reference to 
the Council.
SCHEDULE E
ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
1. The election of the elective Executive Directors shall be by ballot of the Governors eli­
gible to vote.
2. In balloting for the Executive Directors to be elected, each of the Governors eligible to 
vote shall cast for one person all of the votes to which he is entitled under Article XII, Section 5 
(a). The fifteen persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be Executive Directors, 
provided that no person who received less than four percent of the total number of votes that 
can be cast (eligible votes) shall be considered elected.
3. When fifteen persons are not elected in the first ballot, a second ballot shall be held in 
which there shall vote only (a) those Governors who voted in the first ballot for a person not 
elected, and (b) those Governors whose votes for a person elected are deemed under 4 below 
to have raised the votes cast for that person above nine percent of the eligible votes. If in the 
second ballot there are more candidates than the number of Executive Directors to be elected, 
the person who received the lowest number of votes in the first ballot shall be ineligible for 
election.
4. In determining whether the votes cast by a Governor are to be deemed to have raised 
the total of any person above nine percent of the eligible votes the nine percent shall be 
deemed to include, first, the votes of the Governor casting the largest number of votes for such 
person, then the votes of the Governor casting the next largest number, and so on until nine 
percent is reached.
5. Any Governor part of whose votes must be counted in order to raise the total of any per­
son above four percent shall be considered as casting all of his votes for such person even if the 
total votes for such person thereby exceed nine percent.
6. If, after the second ballot, fifteen persons have not been elected, further ballots shall be 
held on the same principles until fifteen persons have been elected, provided that after four­
teen persons are elected, the fifteenth may be elected by a simple majority of the remaining 
votes and shall be deemed to have been elected by all such votes.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued 
SCHEDULE F 
DESIGNATION
During the first basic period the rules for designation shall be as follows:
(a) Participants subject to designation under Article XIX, Section 5 (a) (i) shall be desig­
nated for such amounts as will promote over time equality in the ratios of the partici­
pants’ holdings of special drawing rights in excess of their net cumulative allocations 
to their official holdings of gold and foreign exchange.
(b) The formula to give effect to (a) above shall be such that participants subject to desig­
nation shall be designated:
(i) in proportion to their official holdings of gold and foreign exchange when the 
ratios described in (a) above are equal; and
(ii) in such manner as gradually to reduce the difference between the ratios de­
scribed in (a) above that are low and the ratios that are high.
SCHEDULE G
RECONSTITUTION
1. During the first basic period the rules for reconstitution shall be as follows:
(<z) (i) A participant shall so use and reconstitute its holdings of special drawing rights 
that, five years after the first allocation and at the end of each calendar quarter 
thereafter, the average of its total daily holdings of special drawing rights over the 
most recent five-year period will be not less than thirty percent of the average of its 
daily net cumulative allocation of special drawing rights over the same period.
(ii) Two years after the first allocation and at the end of each calendar month there­
after the Fund shall make calculations for each participant so as to ascertain 
whether and to what extent the participant would need to acquire special drawing 
rights between the date of the calculation and the end of any five year period in 
order to comply with the requirement in (a) (i) above. The Fund shall adopt regu­
lations with respect to the bases on which these calculations shall be made and 
with respect to the timing of the designation of participants under article XIX, Sec­
tion 5 (a) (ii), in order to assist them to comply with the requirement in (a) (i) 
above.
(lii) The Fund shall give special notice to a participant when the calculations under 
(a) (ii) above indicate that it is unlikely that the participant will be able to comply 
with the requirement in (a) (i) above unless it ceases to use special drawing rights 
for the rest of the period for which the calculation was made under (a) (ii) above.
(iv) A participant that needs to acquire special drawing rights to fulfill this obligation 
shall be obligated and entitled to obtain them, for currency acceptable to the 
Fund, in a transaction with the Fund conducted through the General Resources 
Account. If sufficient special drawing rights to fulfill this obligation cannot be 
obtained in this way, the participant shall be obligated and entitled to obtain them 
with a freely usable currency from a participant which the Fund shall specify.
(b) Participants shall also pay due regard to the desirability of pursuing over time a 
balanced relationship between their holdings of special drawing rights and their other 
reserves.
2. 
If a participant fails to comply with the rules for reconstitution, the Fund shall deter­
mine whether or not the circumstances justify suspension under Article XXIII, Section 2 (b).
SCHEDULE H
TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION
1. 
If the obligation remaining after the setoff under Article XXIV, Section 2 (6) is to the 
terminating participant and agreement on settlement between the Fund and the terminating 
participant is not reached within six months of the date of termination, the Fund shall redeem 
this balance of special drawing rights in equal half-yearly installments within a maximum of 
five years of the date of termination. The Fund shall redeem this balance as it may determine,
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
either (a) by the payment to the terminating participant of the amounts provided by the re­
maining participants to the Fund in accordance with Article XXIV, Section 5, or (b) by per­
mitting the terminating participant to use its special drawing rights to obtain its own currency 
or a freely usable currency from a participant specified by the Fund, the General Resources 
Account, or any other holder.
2. If the obligation remaining after the setoff under Article XXIV, Section 2 (b) is to the 
Fund and agreement on settlement is not reached within six months of the date of termin­
ation, the terminating participant shall discharge this obligation in equal half-yearly install­
ments within three years of the date of termination or within such longer period as may be 
fixed by the Fund. The terminating participant shall discharge this obligation, as the Fund 
may determine, either (a) by the payment to the Fund of a freely usable currency, or (b) by 
obtaining special drawing rights, in accordance with Article XXIV, Section 6, from the Gen­
eral Resources Account or in agreement with a participant specified by the Fund or from any 
other holder, and the setoff of these special drawing rights against the installment due.
3. Installments under either 1 or 2 above shall fall due six months after the date of termin­
ation and at intervals of six months thereafter.
4. In the event of the Special Drawing Rights Department going into liquidation under 
Article XXV within six months of the date a participant terminates its participation, the settle­
ment between the Fund and that government shall be made in accordance with Article XXV 
and Schedule I.
SCHEDULE I
ADMINISTRATION OF LIQUIDATION OF THE SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS
DEPARTMENT
1. In the event of liquidation of the Special Drawing Rights Department, participants 
shall discharge their obligations to the Fund in ten half-yearly installments, or in such longer 
period as the Fund may decide is needed, in a freely usable currency and the currencies of par­
ticipants holding special drawing rights to be redeemed in any installment to the extent of such 
redemption, as determined by the Fund. The first half-yearly payment shall be made six 
months after the decision to liquidate the Special Drawing Rights Department.
2. If it is decided to liquidate the Fund within six months of the date of the decision to 
liquidate the Special Drawing Rights Department, the liquidation of the Special Drawing 
Rights Department shall not proceed until special drawing rights held in the General Re­
sources Account have been distributed in accordance with the following rule.
After the distributions made under 2 (a) and (b) of Schedule K, the Fund shall ap­
portion its special drawing rights held in the General Resources Account among all 
members that are participants in proportion to the amounts due to each participant 
after the distribution under 2 (b). To determine the amount due to each member for 
the purpose of apportioning the remainder of its holdings of each currency under 2
(d) of Schedule K, the Fund shall deduct the distribution of special drawing rights 
made under this rule.
3. With the amounts received under 1 above, the Fund shall redeem special drawing 
rights held by holders in the following manner and order:
(a) Special drawing rights held by governments that have terminated their participation 
more than six months before the date the Board of Governors decides to liquidate the 
Special Drawing Rights Department shall be redeemed in accordance with the terms 
of any agreement under Article XXIV or Schedule H.
(b) Special drawing rights held by holders that are not participants shall be redeemed be­
fore those held by participants, and shall be redeemed in proportion to the amount 
held by each holder.
(c) The Fund shall determine the proportion of special drawing rights held by each par­
ticipant in relation to its net cumulative allocation. The Fund shall first redeem special 
drawing rights from the participants with the highest proportion until this proportion 
is reduced to that of the second highest proportion; the Fund shall then redeem the 
special drawing rights held by these participants in accordance with their net cumulat­
ive allocations until the proportions are reduced to that of the third highest pro­
portion; and this process shall be continued until the amount available for redemp­
tion is exhausted.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment
1978
SCHEDULE 1—continued
4. Any amount that a participant will be entitled to receive in redemption under 3 above 
shall be set off against any amount to be paid under 1 above.
5. During liquidation the Fund shall pay interest on the amount of special drawing rights 
held by holders, and each participant shall pay charges on the net cumulative allocation of 
special drawing rights to it less the amount of any payments made in accordance with 1 above. 
The rates of interest and charges and the time of payment shall be determined by the Fund. 
Payments of interest and charges shall be made in special drawing rights to the extent poss­
ible. A participant that does not hold sufficient special drawing rights to meet any charges 
shall make the payment with a currency specified by the Fund. Special drawing rights 
received as charges in amounts needed for administrative expenses shall not be used for the 
payment of interest, but shall be transferred to the Fund and shall be redeemed first and with 
the currencies used by the Fund to meet its expenses.
6. While a participant is in default with respect to any payment required by 1 or 5 above, 
no amounts shall be paid to it in accordance with 3 or 5 above.
7. 
If after the final payments have been made to participants each participant not in de­
fault does not hold special drawing rights in the same proportion to its net cumulative allo­
cation, those participants holding a lower proportion shall purchase from those holding a 
higher proportion such amounts in accordance with arrangements made by the Fund as will 
make the proportion of their holdings of special drawing rights the same. Each participant in 
default shall pay to the Fund its own currency in an amount equal to its default. The Fund 
shall apportion this currency and any residual claims among participants in proportion to the 
amount of special drawing rights held by each and these special drawing rights shall be can­
celled. The Fund shall then close the books of the Special Drawing Rights Department and all 
of the Fund’s liabilities arising from the allocations of special drawing rights and the adminis­
tration of the Special Drawing Rights Department shall cease.
8. 
Each participant whose currency is distributed to other participants under this Schedule 
guarantees the unrestricted use of such currency at all times for the purchase of goods or for 
payments of sums due to it or to persons in its territories. Each participant so obligated agrees 
to compensate other participants for any loss resulting from the difference between the value 
at which the Fund distributed its currency under this Schedule and the value realized by such 
participants on disposal of its currency.
SCHEDULEJ
SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS WITH MEMBERS WITHDRAWING
1. The settlement of accounts with respect to the General Resources Account shall be 
made according to 1 to 6 of this Schedule. The Fund shall be obligated to pay to a member 
withdrawing an amount equal to its quota, plus any other amounts due to it from the Fund, 
less any amounts due to the Fund, including charges accruing after the date of its withdrawal; 
but no payment shall be made until six months after the date of withdrawal. Payments shall 
be made in the currency of the withdrawing member, and for this purpose the Fund may 
transfer to the General Resources Account holdings of the member’s currency in the Special 
Disbursement Account or in the Investment Account in exchange for an equivalent amount of 
the currencies of other members in the General Resources Account selected by the Fund with 
their concurrence.
2. If the Fund’s holdings of the currency of the withdrawing member are not sufficient to 
pay the net amount due from the Fund, the balance shall be paid in a freely usable currency, 
or in such other manner as may be agreed. If the Fund and the withdrawing member do not 
reach agreement within six months of the date of withdrawal, the currency in question held by 
the Fund shall be paid forthwith to the withdrawing member. Any balance due shall be paid 
in ten half-yearly installments during the ensuing five years. Each such installment shall be 
paid, at the option of the Fund, either in the currency of the withdrawing member acquired 
after its withdrawal or in a freely usable currency.
3. If the Fund fails to meet any installment which is due in accordance with the preceding 
paragraphs, the withdrawing member shall be entitled to require the Fund to pay the install­
ment in any currency held by the Fund with the exception of any currency which has been 
declared scarce under Article VII, Section 3.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 1—continued
4. If the Fund’s holdings of the currency of a withdrawing member exceed the amount 
due to it, and if agreement on the method of settling accounts is not reached within six months 
of the date of withdrawal, the former member shall be obligated to redeem such excess cur­
rency in a freely usable currency. Redemption shall be made at the rates at which the Fund 
would sell such currencies at the time of withdrawal from the Fund. The withdrawing member 
shall complete redemption within five years of the date of withdrawal, or within such longer 
period as may be fixed by the Fund, but shall not be required to redeem in any half-yearly 
period more than one-tenth of the Fund’s excess holdings of its currency at the date of with­
drawal plus further acquisitions of the currency during such half-yearly period. If the 
withdrawing member does not fulfill this obligation, the Fund may in an orderly manner 
liquidate in any market the amount of currency which should have been redeemed.
5. Any member desiring to obtain the currency of a member which has withdrawn shall 
acquire it by purchase from the Fund, to the extent that such member has access to the general 
resources of the Fund and that such currency is available under 4 above.
6. The withdrawing member guarantees the unrestricted use at all times of the currency 
disposed of under 4 and 5 above for the purchase of goods or for payment of sums due to it or 
to persons within its territories. It shall compensate the Fund for any loss resulting from the 
difference between the value of its currency in terms of the special drawing right on the date of 
withdrawal and the value realized in terms of the special drawing right by the Fund on 
disposal under 4 and 5 above.
7. If the withdrawing member is indebted to the Fund as the result of transactions con­
ducted through the Special Disbursement Account under Article V, Section 12 (/) (ii), the 
indebtedness shall be discharged in accordance with the terms of the indebtedness.
8. If the Fund holds the withdrawing member’s currency in the Special Disbursement 
Account or in the Investment Account, the Fund may in an orderly manner exchange in any 
market for the currencies of members the amount of the currency of the withdrawing member 
remaining in each account after use under 1 above, and the proceeds of the exchange of the 
amount in each account shall be kept in that account. Paragraph 5 above and the first sentence 
of 6 above shall apply to the withdrawing member’s currency.
9. If the Fund holds obligations of the withdrawing member in the Special Disbursement 
Account pursuant to Article V, Section 12 (A), or in the Investment Account, the Fund may 
hold them until the date of maturity or dispose of them sooner. Paragraph 8 above shall apply 
to the proceeds of such disinvestment.
10. In the event of the Fund going into liquidation under Article XXVII, Section 2 within 
six months of the date on which the member withdraws, the accounts between the Fund and 
that government shall be settled in accordance with Article XXVII, Section 2 and Schedule K.
SCHEDULE K
ADMINISTRATION OF LIQUIDATION
1. In the event of liquidation the liabilities of the Fund other than the repayment of sub­
scriptions shall have priority in the distribution of the assets of the Fund. In meeting each such 
liability the Fund shall use its assets in the following order:
(a) the currency in which the liability is payable;
(f>) gold;
(c) all other currencies in proportion, so far as may be practicable, to the quotas of the 
members.
2. After the discharge of the Fund’s liabilities in accordance with 1 above, the balance of 
the Fund’s assets shall be distributed and apportioned as follows:
(a) (i) The Fund shall calculate the value of gold held on August 31, 1975 that it con­
tinues to hold on the date of the decision to liquidate. The calculation shall be 
made in accordance with 9 below and also on the basis of one special drawing 
right per 0.888 671 gram of fine gold on the date of liquidation. Gold equivalent 
to the excess of the former value over the latter shall be distributed to those 
members that were members on August 31, 1975 in proportion to their quotas on 
that date.
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1 —continued
(ii) The Fund shall distribute any assets held in the Special Disbursement Account on 
the date of the decision to liquidate to those members that were members on 
August 31, 1975 in proportion to their quotas on that date. Each type of asset shall 
be distributed proportionately to members.
(b) The Fund shall distribute its remaining holdings of gold among the members whose 
currencies are held by the Fund in amounts less than their quotas in the proportions, 
but not in excess of, the amounts by which their quotas exceed the Fund’s holdings of 
their currencies.
(c) The Fund shall distribute to each member one-half the Fund’s holdings of its cur­
rency but such distribution shall not exceed fifty percent of its quota.
(d) The Fund shall apportion the remainder of its holdings of gold and each currency
(i) among all members in proportion to, but not in excess of, the amounts due to each 
member after the distributions under (6) and (c) above, provided that distribution 
under 2 (a) above shall not be taken into account for determining the amounts 
due, and
(ii) any excess holdings of gold and currency among all the members in proportion to 
their quotas.
3. Each member shall redeem the holdings of its currency apportioned to other members 
under 2 (d) above, and shall agree with the Fund within three months after a decision to liqui­
date upon an orderly procedure for such redemption. '
4. If a member has not reached agreement with the Fund within the three-month period 
referred to in 3 above the Fund shall use the currencies of other members apportioned to that 
member under 2 (d) above to redeem the currency of that member apportioned to other 
members. Each currency apportioned to a member which has not reached agreement shall be 
used, so far as possible, to redeem its currency apportioned to the members which have made 
agreements with the Fund under 3 above.
5. If a member has reached agreement with the Fund in accordance with 3 above, the 
Fund shall use the currencies of other members apportioned to that member under 2 (d) 
above to redeem the currency of that member apportioned to other members which have 
made agreements with the Fund under 3 above. Each amount so redeemed shall be redeemed 
in the currency of the member to which it was apportioned.
6. After carrying out the steps in the preceding paragraphs, the Fund shall pay to each 
member the remaining currencies held for its account.
7. Each member whose currency has been distributed to other members under 6 above 
shall redeem such currency in the currency of the member requesting redemption, or in such 
other manner as may be agreed between them. If the members involved do not otherwise 
agree, the member obligated to redeem shall complete redemption within five years of the 
date of distribution, but shall not be required to redeem in any half-yearly period more than 
one-tenth of the amount distributed to each other member. If the member does not fulfill this 
obligation, the amount of currency which should have been redeemed may be liquidated in an 
orderly manner in any market.
8. Each member whose currency has been distributed to other members under 6 above 
guarantees the unrestricted use of such currency at all times for the purchase of goods or for 
payment of sums due to it or to persons in its territories. Each member so obligated agrees to 
compensate other members for any loss resulting from the difference between the value of its 
currency in terms of the special drawing right on the date of the decision to liquidate the Fund 
and the value in terms of the special drawing right realized by such members on disposal of its 
currency.
9. The Fund shall determine the value of gold under this Schedule on the basis of prices in 
the market.
10. For the purposes of this Schedule, quotas shall be deemed to have been increased to 
the full extent to which they could have been increased in accordance with Article III, Section 
2 (b) of this Agreement.
No. 97 
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
1978
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1978
International Monetary Agreements Amendment 
No. 97
SCHEDULE 2 
Section 16
FORMAL AMENDMENTS
Provision
Omit—
Substitute—
Section 3 (2) 
. .
. 
section five C of this Act
section 5c
Section 3 (3) 
. .
. 
sub-section (1) of section five C of this Act 
the last preceding sub-section
sub-section 5c (1) 
sub-section (2) of this 
section
Section 5C (2) . .
. 
the last preceding sub-section
sub-section (1)
Section 6(1) 
. .
. 
section eight
section 8
Section 6 (2) 
. .
. 
the last preceding sub-section 
the next succeeding section
sub-section (1) 
section 7
Second Schedule 
.
. 
SECOND SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE 2
Third Schedule 
.
. 
THIRD SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE 3
NOTES
1. Act No. 97,1978; assented to 24 August 1978.
2. Act No. 5, 1947, as amended. For previous amendments see Act No. 37, 1966; 
No. 130, 1968; and No. 216,1973 (as amended by No. 20,1974).
Authorised Version C2004A01896

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
