 
 
Compiled AASB Standard 
AASB 116
Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
This compiled Standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023.  Earlier application is 
permitted for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but before 1 January 2023.  It incorporates relevant 
amendments made up to and including 15 December 2022. 
Prepared on 6 February 2023 by the staff of the Australian Accounting Standards Board. 
Compilation no. 6 
Compilation date:  31 December 2022 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
2 
COPYRIGHT 
Obtaining copies of Accounting Standards 
Compiled versions of Standards, original Standards and amending Standards (see Compilation Details) are available 
on the AASB website: www.aasb.gov.au. 
Australian Accounting Standards Board 
PO Box 204 
Collins Street West 
Victoria   8007 
AUSTRALIA 
Phone: 
(03) 9617 7600 
E-mail: 
standard@aasb.gov.au 
Website: 
www.aasb.gov.au 
Other enquiries 
Phone: 
(03) 9617 7600 
E-mail: 
standard@aasb.gov.au 
COPYRIGHT 
© Commonwealth of Australia 2023 
This compiled AASB Standard contains IFRS Foundation copyright material.  Reproduction within Australia in 
unaltered form (retaining this notice) is permitted for personal and non-commercial use subject to the inclusion of an 
acknowledgment of the source.  Requests and enquiries concerning reproduction and rights for commercial purposes 
within Australia should be addressed to The Managing Director, Australian Accounting Standards Board, PO Box 
204, Collins Street West, Victoria 8007. 
All existing rights in this material are reserved outside Australia.  Reproduction outside Australia in unaltered form 
(retaining this notice) is permitted for personal and non-commercial use only.  Further information and requests for 
authorisation to reproduce IFRS Foundation copyright material for commercial purposes outside Australia should be 
addressed to the IFRS Foundation at www.ifrs.org. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
3 
CONTENTS 
Contents 
COMPARISON WITH IAS 16 
ACCOUNTING STANDARD 
AASB 116 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
from paragraph 
OBJECTIVE 
1 
SCOPE 
2 
DEFINITIONS 
6 
RECOGNITION 
7 
Initial costs 
11 
Subsequent costs 
12 
MEASUREMENT AT RECOGNITION 
15 
Elements of cost 
16 
Measurement of cost 
23 
MEASUREMENT AFTER RECOGNITION 
29 
Cost model 
30 
Revaluation model 
31 
Depreciation 
43 
Depreciable amount and depreciation period 
50 
Depreciation method 
60 
Impairment 
63 
Compensation for impairment 
65 
DERECOGNITION 
67 
DISCLOSURE 
73 
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
80A 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
81 
WITHDRAWAL OF OTHER PRONOUNCEMENTS 
COMMENCEMENT OF THE LEGISLATIVE INSTRUMENT 
WITHDRAWAL OF AASB PRONOUNCEMENTS 
Aus83.2 
APPENDICES 
A  Australian defined terms 
B  Australian simplified disclosures for Tier 2 entities  
AUSTRALIAN IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE 
COMPILATION DETAILS 
DELETED IAS 16 TEXT 
 
 
AVAILABLE ON THE AASB WEBSITE 
Basis for Conclusions on IAS 16 
 
 
Australian Accounting Standard AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment (as amended) is set out in paragraphs 1 – 
Aus83.2 and Appendices A and B.  All the paragraphs have equal authority.  Paragraphs in bold type state the main 
principles.  AASB 116 is to be read in the context of other Australian Accounting Standards, including AASB 1048 
Interpretation of Standards, which identifies the Australian Accounting Interpretations, and AASB 1057 Application 
of Australian Accounting Standards.  In the absence of explicit guidance, AASB 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying accounting policies. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
4 
COMPARISON 
Comparison with IAS 16 
AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment as amended incorporates IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment as issued 
and amended by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).  Australian-specific paragraphs (which are not 
included in IAS 16) are identified with the prefix “Aus”.  Paragraphs that apply only to not-for-profit entities begin by 
identifying their limited applicability. 
Tier 1 
For-profit entities complying with AASB 116 also comply with IAS 16. 
Not-for-profit entities’ compliance with IAS 16 will depend on whether any “Aus” paragraphs that specifically apply 
to not-for-profit entities provide additional guidance or contain applicable requirements that are inconsistent with 
IAS 16. 
Tier 2 
Entities preparing general purpose financial statements under Australian Accounting Standards – Simplified 
Disclosures (Tier 2) will not be in compliance with IFRS Standards. 
AASB 1053 Application of Tiers of Australian Accounting Standards explains the two tiers of reporting requirements. 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
5 
STANDARD 
Accounting Standard AASB 116 
The Australian Accounting Standards Board made Accounting Standard AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment 
under section 334 of the Corporations Act 2001 on 7 August 2015. 
This compiled version of AASB 116 applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023.  It incorporates 
relevant amendments contained in other AASB Standards made by the AASB up to and including 15 December 2022 
(see Compilation Details). 
Accounting Standard AASB 116 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Objective 
1 
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for property, plant and equipment so 
that users of the financial statements can discern information about an entity’s investment in its property, 
plant and equipment and the changes in such investment. The principal issues in accounting for property, 
plant and equipment are the recognition of the assets, the determination of their carrying amounts and the 
depreciation charges and impairment losses to be recognised in relation to them. 
AusCF1 
AusCF entities are: 
(a) 
not-for-profit entities; and 
(b) 
for-profit entities that are not applying the Conceptual Framework for Financial 
Reporting (as identified in AASB 1048 Interpretation of Standards). 
For AusCF entities, the term ‘reporting entity’ is defined in AASB 1057 Application of 
Australian Accounting Standards and Statement of Accounting Concepts SAC 1 Definition of the 
Reporting Entity also applies. For-profit entities applying the Conceptual Framework for 
Financial Reporting are set out in paragraph Aus1.1 of the Conceptual Framework. 
Scope 
2 
This Standard shall be applied in accounting for property, plant and equipment except when another 
Standard requires or permits a different accounting treatment. 
3 
This Standard does not apply to: 
(a) 
property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale in accordance with AASB 5 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. 
(b) 
biological assets related to agricultural activity other than bearer plants (see AASB 141 
Agriculture). This Standard applies to bearer plants but it does not apply to the produce on bearer 
plants. 
(c) 
the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation assets (see AASB 6 Exploration 
for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources). 
(d) 
mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative 
resources. 
However, this Standard applies to property, plant and equipment used to develop or maintain the assets 
described in (b)–(d). 
4 
[Deleted]  
5 
An entity using the cost model for investment property in accordance with AASB 140 Investment Property 
shall use the cost model in this Standard for owned investment property. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
6 
STANDARD 
Definitions 
6 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
A bearer plant is a living plant that: 
(a) 
is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce; 
(b) 
is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and 
(c) 
has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental scrap 
sales. 
(Paragraphs 5A–5B of AASB 141 elaborate on this definition of a bearer plant.) 
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised after deducting any accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration given 
to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amount 
attributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific requirements of 
other Australian Accounting Standards, eg AASB 2 Share-based Payment. 
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value. 
Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life. 
Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from the 
continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life or expects to incur when 
settling a liability. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See AASB 13 Fair Value 
Measurement.) 
An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount. 
Property, plant and equipment are tangible items that: 
(a) 
are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for 
administrative purposes; and 
(b) 
are expected to be used during more than one period. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. 
The residual value of an asset is the estimated amount that an entity would currently obtain from 
disposal of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the 
age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.  
Useful life is: 
(a) 
the period over which an asset is expected to be available for use by an entity; or 
(b) 
the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by an 
entity. 
Recognition 
7 
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be recognised as an asset if, and only if:  
(a) 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity; 
and 
(b) 
the cost of the item can be measured reliably.  
8 
Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment are recognised in accordance with 
this Standard when they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment. Otherwise, such items are 
classified as inventory. 
9 
This Standard does not prescribe the unit of measure for recognition, ie what constitutes an item of 
property, plant and equipment. Thus, judgement is required in applying the recognition criteria to an entity’s 
specific circumstances. It may be appropriate to aggregate individually insignificant items, such as moulds, 
tools and dies, and to apply the criteria to the aggregate value. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
7 
STANDARD 
10 
An entity evaluates under this recognition principle all its property, plant and equipment costs at the time 
they are incurred. These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, 
plant and equipment and costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. The cost of an 
item of property, plant and equipment may include costs incurred relating to leases of assets that are used to 
construct, add to, replace part of or service an item of property, plant and equipment, such as depreciation of 
right-of-use assets. 
Initial costs 
11 
Items of property, plant and equipment may be acquired for safety or environmental reasons. The 
acquisition of such property, plant and equipment, although not directly increasing the future economic 
benefits of any particular existing item of property, plant and equipment, may be necessary for an entity to 
obtain the future economic benefits from its other assets. Such items of property, plant and equipment 
qualify for recognition as assets because they enable an entity to derive future economic benefits from 
related assets in excess of what could be derived had those items not been acquired. For example, a 
chemical manufacturer may install new chemical handling processes to comply with environmental 
requirements for the production and storage of dangerous chemicals; related plant enhancements are 
recognised as an asset because without them the entity is unable to manufacture and sell chemicals. 
However, the resulting carrying amount of such an asset and related assets is reviewed for impairment in 
accordance with AASB 136 Impairment of Assets. 
Subsequent costs 
12 
Under the recognition principle in paragraph 7, an entity does not recognise in the carrying amount of an 
item of property, plant and equipment the costs of the day-to-day servicing of the item. Rather, these costs 
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Costs of day-to-day servicing are primarily the costs of labour 
and consumables, and may include the cost of small parts. The purpose of these expenditures is often 
described as for the ‘repairs and maintenance’ of the item of property, plant and equipment. 
13 
Parts of some items of property, plant and equipment may require replacement at regular intervals. For 
example, a furnace may require relining after a specified number of hours of use, or aircraft interiors such as 
seats and galleys may require replacement several times during the life of the airframe. Items of property, 
plant and equipment may also be acquired to make a less frequently recurring replacement, such as 
replacing the interior walls of a building, or to make a nonrecurring replacement. Under the recognition 
principle in paragraph 7, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and 
equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are 
met. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is derecognised in accordance with the 
derecognition provisions of this Standard (see paragraphs 67–72). 
14 
A condition of continuing to operate an item of property, plant and equipment (for example, an aircraft) 
may be performing regular major inspections for faults regardless of whether parts of the item are replaced. 
When each major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the item of 
property, plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. Any remaining 
carrying amount of the cost of the previous inspection (as distinct from physical parts) is derecognised. This 
occurs regardless of whether the cost of the previous inspection was identified in the transaction in which 
the item was acquired or constructed. If necessary, the estimated cost of a future similar inspection may be 
used as an indication of what the cost of the existing inspection component was when the item was acquired 
or constructed. 
Measurement at recognition 
15 
An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition as an asset shall be measured 
at its cost. 
Aus15.1 
Notwithstanding paragraph 15, not-for-profit entities shall initially measure the cost of an 
item of property, plant and equipment at fair value in accordance with AASB 13 Fair Value 
Measurement where the consideration for the asset is significantly less than fair value 
principally to enable the entity to further its objectives. AASB 1058 Income of Not-for-Profit 
Entities addresses the recognition of related amounts. 
Aus15.2 
[Deleted by the AASB] 
Aus15.3 
In respect of not-for-profit entities, for the purposes of this Standard, the initial recognition and 
measurement at fair value of an item of property, plant and equipment in accordance with 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
8 
STANDARD 
paragraph Aus15.1 does not constitute a revaluation.  Accordingly, the revaluation requirements 
in paragraph 31, and the supporting commentary in paragraphs 34 and 35, only apply where an 
entity elects to revalue an item of property, plant and equipment after its recognition. 
Elements of cost 
16 
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:  
(a) 
its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates. 
(b) 
any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to 
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
(c) 
the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on 
which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as 
a consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to 
produce inventories during that period. 
17 
Examples of directly attributable costs are: 
(a) 
costs of employee benefits (as defined in AASB 119 Employee Benefits) arising directly from the 
construction or acquisition of the item of property, plant and equipment; 
(b) 
costs of site preparation; 
(c) 
initial delivery and handling costs; 
(d) 
installation and assembly costs; 
(e) 
costs of testing whether the asset is functioning properly (ie assessing whether the technical and 
physical performance of the asset is such that it is capable of being used in the production or 
supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for administrative purposes); and 
(f) 
professional fees. 
18 
An entity applies AASB 102 Inventories to the costs of obligations for dismantling, removing and restoring 
the site on which an item is located that are incurred during a particular period as a consequence of having 
used the item to produce inventories during that period. The obligations for costs accounted for in 
accordance with AASB 102 or AASB 116 are recognised and measured in accordance with AASB 137 
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. 
19 
Examples of costs that are not costs of an item of property, plant and equipment are: 
(a) 
costs of opening a new facility; 
(b) 
costs of introducing a new product or service (including costs of advertising and promotional 
activities); 
(c) 
costs of conducting business in a new location or with a new class of customer (including costs of 
staff training); and 
(d) 
administration and other general overhead costs. 
20 
Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment ceases when the 
item is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. Therefore, costs incurred in using or redeploying an item are not included in the carrying 
amount of that item. For example, the following costs are not included in the carrying amount of an item of 
property, plant and equipment: 
(a) 
costs incurred while an item capable of operating in the manner intended by management has yet 
to be brought into use or is operated at less than full capacity; 
(b) 
initial operating losses, such as those incurred while demand for the item’s output builds up; and 
(c) 
costs of relocating or reorganising part or all of an entity’s operations. 
20A 
Items may be produced while bringing an item of property, plant and equipment to the location and 
condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management (such as 
samples produced when testing whether the asset is functioning properly). An entity recognises the 
proceeds from selling any such items, and the cost of those items, in profit or loss in accordance with 
applicable Standards. The entity measures the cost of those items applying the measurement requirements 
of AASB 102. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
9 
STANDARD 
21 
Some operations occur in connection with the construction or development of an item of property, plant and 
equipment, but are not necessary to bring the item to the location and condition necessary for it to be 
capable of operating in the manner intended by management. These incidental operations may occur before 
or during the construction or development activities. For example, income may be earned through using a 
building site as a car park until construction starts. Because incidental operations are not necessary to bring 
an item to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, the income and related expenses of incidental operations are recognised in profit or loss and 
included in their respective classifications of income and expense. 
22 
The cost of a self-constructed asset is determined using the same principles as for an acquired asset. If an 
entity makes similar assets for sale in the normal course of business, the cost of the asset is usually the same 
as the cost of constructing an asset for sale (see AASB 102). Therefore, any internal profits are eliminated 
in arriving at such costs. Similarly, the cost of abnormal amounts of wasted material, labour, or other 
resources incurred in self-constructing an asset is not included in the cost of the asset. AASB 123 
Borrowing Costs establishes criteria for the recognition of interest as a component of the carrying amount of 
a self-constructed item of property, plant and equipment. 
22A 
Bearer plants are accounted for in the same way as self-constructed items of property, plant and equipment 
before they are in the location and condition necessary to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. Consequently, references to ‘construction’ in this Standard should be read as covering 
activities that are necessary to cultivate the bearer plants before they are in the location and condition 
necessary to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
Measurement of cost 
23 
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is the cash price equivalent at the recognition date. If 
payment is deferred beyond normal credit terms, the difference between the cash price equivalent and the 
total payment is recognised as interest over the period of credit unless such interest is capitalised in 
accordance with AASB 123. 
24 
One or more items of property, plant and equipment may be acquired in exchange for a non-monetary asset 
or assets, or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets. The following discussion refers simply to 
an exchange of one non-monetary asset for another, but it also applies to all exchanges described in the 
preceding sentence. The cost of such an item of property, plant and equipment is measured at fair value 
unless (a) the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or (b) the fair value of neither the asset 
received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. The acquired item is measured in this way even if an 
entity cannot immediately derecognise the asset given up. If the acquired item is not measured at fair value, 
its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up. 
25 
An entity determines whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance by considering the extent 
to which its future cash flows are expected to change as a result of the transaction. An exchange transaction 
has commercial substance if: 
(a) 
the configuration (risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received differs from 
the configuration of the cash flows of the asset transferred; or 
(b) 
the entity-specific value of the portion of the entity’s operations affected by the transaction 
changes as a result of the exchange; and 
(c) 
the difference in (a) or (b) is significant relative to the fair value of the assets exchanged. 
For the purpose of determining whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance, the entity-
specific value of the portion of the entity’s operations affected by the transaction shall reflect post-tax cash 
flows. The result of these analyses may be clear without an entity having to perform detailed calculations. 
26 
The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value 
measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the 
range can be reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If an entity is able to measure 
reliably the fair value of either the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given 
up is used to measure the cost of the asset received unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly 
evident. 
27 
[Deleted]  
28 
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment may be reduced by government grants in 
accordance with AASB 120 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
10 
STANDARD 
Measurement after recognition 
29 
An entity shall choose either the cost model in paragraph 30 or the revaluation model in paragraph 
31 as its accounting policy and shall apply that policy to an entire class of property, plant and 
equipment. 
29A 
Some entities operate, either internally or externally, an investment fund that provides investors with 
benefits determined by units in the fund. Similarly, some entities issue groups of insurance contracts with 
direct participation features and hold the underlying items. Some such funds or underlying items include 
owner-occupied property. The entity applies AASB 116 to owner-occupied properties that are included in 
such a fund or are underlying items. Despite paragraph 29, the entity may elect to measure such properties 
using the fair value model in accordance with AASB 140. For the purposes of this election, insurance 
contracts include investment contracts with discretionary participation features. (See AASB 17 Insurance 
Contracts for terms used in this paragraph that are defined in that Standard). 
29B 
An entity shall treat owner-occupied property measured using the investment property fair value model 
applying paragraph 29A as a separate class of property, plant and equipment. 
Cost model 
30 
After recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment shall be carried at its cost less 
any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Revaluation model 
31 
After recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment whose fair value can be 
measured reliably shall be carried at a revalued amount, being its fair value at the date of the 
revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment 
losses. Revaluations shall be made with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does 
not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair value at the end of the reporting 
period. 
32– 
33 
[Deleted] 
34 
The frequency of revaluations depends upon the changes in fair values of the items of property, plant and 
equipment being revalued. When the fair value of a revalued asset differs materially from its carrying 
amount, a further revaluation is required. Some items of property, plant and equipment experience 
significant and volatile changes in fair value, thus necessitating annual revaluation. Such frequent 
revaluations are unnecessary for items of property, plant and equipment with only insignificant changes in 
fair value. Instead, it may be necessary to revalue the item only every three or five years. 
35 
When an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, the carrying amount of that asset is adjusted to 
the revalued amount. At the date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the following ways: 
(a) 
the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the revaluation of the 
carrying amount of the asset. For example, the gross carrying amount may be restated by 
reference to observable market data or it may be restated proportionately to the change in the 
carrying amount. The accumulated depreciation at the date of the revaluation is adjusted to equal 
the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset after 
taking into account accumulated impairment losses; or 
(b) 
the accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset. 
The amount of the adjustment of accumulated depreciation forms part of the increase or decrease in 
carrying amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 39, Aus39.1, 40, Aus40.1 and 
Aus40.2. 
36 
If an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, the entire class of property, plant and 
equipment to which that asset belongs shall be revalued. 
37 
A class of property, plant and equipment is a grouping of assets of a similar nature and use in an entity’s 
operations. The following are examples of separate classes:  
(a) 
land; 
(b) 
land and buildings; 
(c) 
machinery; 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
11 
STANDARD 
(d) 
ships; 
(e) 
aircraft; 
(f) 
motor vehicles; 
(g) 
furniture and fixtures; 
(h) 
office equipment; and 
(i) 
bearer plants. 
38 
The items within a class of property, plant and equipment are revalued simultaneously to avoid selective 
revaluation of assets and the reporting of amounts in the financial statements that are a mixture of costs and 
values as at different dates. However, a class of assets may be revalued on a rolling basis provided 
revaluation of the class of assets is completed within a short period and provided the revaluations are kept 
up to date. 
39 
If an asset’s carrying amount is increased as a result of a revaluation, the increase shall be recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus. 
However, the increase shall be recognised in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a revaluation 
decrease of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss. 
Aus39.1 
Notwithstanding paragraph 39, in respect of not-for-profit entities, if the carrying amount 
of a class of assets is increased as a result of a revaluation, the net revaluation increase shall 
be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading 
of revaluation surplus.  However, the net revaluation increase shall be recognised in profit 
or loss to the extent that it reverses a net revaluation decrease of the same class of assets 
previously recognised in profit or loss. 
40 
If an asset’s carrying amount is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease shall be 
recognised in profit or loss. However, the decrease shall be recognised in other comprehensive income 
to the extent of any credit balance existing in the revaluation surplus in respect of that asset. The 
decrease recognised in other comprehensive income reduces the amount accumulated in equity under 
the heading of revaluation surplus. 
Aus40.1 
Notwithstanding paragraph 40, in respect of not-for-profit entities, if the carrying amount 
of a class of assets decreased as a result of a revaluation, the net revaluation decrease shall 
be recognised in profit or loss.  However, the net revaluation decrease shall be recognised in 
other comprehensive income to the extent of any credit balance existing in any revaluation 
surplus in respect of that same class of asset.  The net revaluation decrease recognised in 
other comprehensive income reduces the amount accumulated in equity under the heading 
of revaluation surplus. 
Aus40.2 
Notwithstanding paragraph 40, in respect of not-for-profit entities, revaluation increases 
and revaluation decreases relating to individual assets within a class of property, plant and 
equipment shall be offset against one another within that class but shall not be offset in 
respect of assets in different classes. 
41 
The revaluation surplus included in equity in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment may be 
transferred directly to retained earnings when the asset is derecognised. This may involve transferring the 
whole of the surplus when the asset is retired or disposed of. However, some of the surplus may be 
transferred as the asset is used by an entity. In such a case, the amount of the surplus transferred would be 
the difference between depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of the asset and depreciation 
based on the asset’s original cost. Transfers from revaluation surplus to retained earnings are not made 
through profit or loss. 
42 
The effects of taxes on income, if any, resulting from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment are 
recognised and disclosed in accordance with AASB 112 Income Taxes. 
Depreciation 
43 
Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the 
total cost of the item shall be depreciated separately. 
44 
An entity allocates the amount initially recognised in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment to 
its significant parts and depreciates separately each such part. For example, it may be appropriate to 
depreciate separately the airframe and engines of an aircraft. Similarly, if an entity acquires property, plant 
and equipment subject to an operating lease in which it is the lessor, it may be appropriate to depreciate 
separately amounts reflected in the cost of that item that are attributable to favourable or unfavourable lease 
terms relative to market terms. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
12 
STANDARD 
45 
A significant part of an item of property, plant and equipment may have a useful life and a depreciation 
method that are the same as the useful life and the depreciation method of another significant part of that 
same item. Such parts may be grouped in determining the depreciation charge. 
46 
To the extent that an entity depreciates separately some parts of an item of property, plant and equipment, it 
also depreciates separately the remainder of the item. The remainder consists of the parts of the item that are 
individually not significant. If an entity has varying expectations for these parts, approximation techniques 
may be necessary to depreciate the remainder in a manner that faithfully represents the consumption pattern 
and/or useful life of its parts. 
47 
An entity may choose to depreciate separately the parts of an item that do not have a cost that is significant 
in relation to the total cost of the item. 
48 
The depreciation charge for each period shall be recognised in profit or loss unless it is included in 
the carrying amount of another asset. 
49 
The depreciation charge for a period is usually recognised in profit or loss. However, sometimes, the future 
economic benefits embodied in an asset are absorbed in producing other assets. In this case, the depreciation 
charge constitutes part of the cost of the other asset and is included in its carrying amount. For example, the 
depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment is included in the costs of conversion of inventories (see 
AASB 102). Similarly, depreciation of property, plant and equipment used for development activities may 
be included in the cost of an intangible asset recognised in accordance with AASB 138 Intangible Assets. 
Depreciable amount and depreciation period 
50 
The depreciable amount of an asset shall be allocated on a systematic basis over its useful life. 
51 
The residual value and the useful life of an asset shall be reviewed at least at each financial year-end 
and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the change(s) shall be accounted for as a change in 
an accounting estimate in accordance with AASB 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors. 
52 
Depreciation is recognised even if the fair value of the asset exceeds its carrying amount, as long as the 
asset’s residual value does not exceed its carrying amount. Repair and maintenance of an asset do not 
negate the need to depreciate it. 
53 
The depreciable amount of an asset is determined after deducting its residual value. In practice, the residual 
value of an asset is often insignificant and therefore immaterial in the calculation of the depreciable amount. 
54 
The residual value of an asset may increase to an amount equal to or greater than the asset’s carrying 
amount. If it does, the asset’s depreciation charge is zero unless and until its residual value subsequently 
decreases to an amount below the asset’s carrying amount. 
55 
Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, ie when it is in the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation of an asset 
ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group 
that is classified as held for sale) in accordance with AASB 5 and the date that the asset is derecognised. 
Therefore, depreciation does not cease when the asset becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the 
asset is fully depreciated. However, under usage methods of depreciation the depreciation charge can be 
zero while there is no production. 
56 
The future economic benefits embodied in an asset are consumed by an entity principally through its use. 
However, other factors, such as technical or commercial obsolescence and wear and tear while an asset 
remains idle, often result in the diminution of the economic benefits that might have been obtained from the 
asset. Consequently, all the following factors are considered in determining the useful life of an asset: 
(a) 
expected usage of the asset. Usage is assessed by reference to the asset’s expected capacity or 
physical output. 
(b) 
expected physical wear and tear, which depends on operational factors such as the number of 
shifts for which the asset is to be used and the repair and maintenance programme, and the care 
and maintenance of the asset while idle. 
(c) 
technical or commercial obsolescence arising from changes or improvements in production, or 
from a change in the market demand for the product or service output of the asset. Expected 
future reductions in the selling price of an item that was produced using an asset could indicate 
the expectation of technical or commercial obsolescence of the asset, which, in turn, might reflect 
a reduction of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. 
(d) 
legal or similar limits on the use of the asset, such as the expiry dates of related leases. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
13 
STANDARD 
57 
The useful life of an asset is defined in terms of the asset’s expected utility to the entity. The asset 
management policy of the entity may involve the disposal of assets after a specified time or after 
consumption of a specified proportion of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. Therefore, the 
useful life of an asset may be shorter than its economic life. The estimation of the useful life of the asset is a 
matter of judgement based on the experience of the entity with similar assets. 
58 
Land and buildings are separable assets and are accounted for separately, even when they are acquired 
together. With some exceptions, such as quarries and sites used for landfill, land has an unlimited useful life 
and therefore is not depreciated. Buildings have a limited useful life and therefore are depreciable assets. An 
increase in the value of the land on which a building stands does not affect the determination of the 
depreciable amount of the building. 
59 
If the cost of land includes the costs of site dismantlement, removal and restoration, that portion of the land 
asset is depreciated over the period of benefits obtained by incurring those costs. In some cases, the land 
itself may have a limited useful life, in which case it is depreciated in a manner that reflects the benefits to 
be derived from it. 
Depreciation method 
60 
The depreciation method used shall reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits 
are expected to be consumed by the entity. 
61 
The depreciation method applied to an asset shall be reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, 
if there has been a significant change in the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic 
benefits embodied in the asset, the method shall be changed to reflect the changed pattern. Such a 
change shall be accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with AASB 108. 
62 
A variety of depreciation methods can be used to allocate the depreciable amount of an asset on a 
systematic basis over its useful life. These methods include the straight-line method, the diminishing 
balance method and the units of production method. Straight-line depreciation results in a constant charge 
over the useful life if the asset’s residual value does not change. The diminishing balance method results in 
a decreasing charge over the useful life. The units of production method results in a charge based on the 
expected use or output. The entity selects the method that most closely reflects the expected pattern of 
consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. That method is applied consistently 
from period to period unless there is a change in the expected pattern of consumption of those future 
economic benefits. 
62A 
A depreciation method that is based on revenue that is generated by an activity that includes the use of an 
asset is not appropriate. The revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an asset generally 
reflects factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset. For example, revenue is 
affected by other inputs and processes, selling activities and changes in sales volumes and prices. The price 
component of revenue may be affected by inflation, which has no bearing upon the way in which an asset is 
consumed. 
Impairment 
63 
To determine whether an item of property, plant and equipment is impaired, an entity applies AASB 136 
Impairment of Assets. That Standard explains how an entity reviews the carrying amount of its assets, how 
it determines the recoverable amount of an asset, and when it recognises, or reverses the recognition of, an 
impairment loss. 
64 
[Deleted] 
Compensation for impairment 
65 
Compensation from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, lost 
or given up shall be included in profit or loss when the compensation becomes receivable. 
66 
Impairments or losses of items of property, plant and equipment, related claims for or payments of 
compensation from third parties and any subsequent purchase or construction of replacement assets are 
separate economic events and are accounted for separately as follows:  
(a) 
impairments of items of property, plant and equipment are recognised in accordance with 
AASB 136; 
(b) 
derecognition of items of property, plant and equipment retired or disposed of is determined in 
accordance with this Standard; 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
14 
STANDARD 
(c) 
compensation from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, 
lost or given up is included in determining profit or loss when it becomes receivable; and 
(d) 
the cost of items of property, plant and equipment restored, purchased or constructed as 
replacements is determined in accordance with this Standard. 
Derecognition 
67 
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be derecognised: 
(a) 
on disposal; or 
(b) 
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
68 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be 
included in profit or loss when the item is derecognised (unless AASB 16 Leases requires otherwise on 
a sale and leaseback). Gains shall not be classified as revenue. 
68A 
However, an entity that, in the course of its ordinary activities, routinely sells items of property, plant and 
equipment that it has held for rental to others shall transfer such assets to inventories at their carrying 
amount when they cease to be rented and become held for sale. The proceeds from the sale of such assets 
shall be recognised as revenue in accordance with AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 
AASB 5 does not apply when assets that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business are transferred 
to inventories. 
69 
The disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment may occur in a variety of ways (eg by sale, by 
entering into a finance lease or by donation). The date of disposal of an item of property, plant and 
equipment is the date the recipient obtains control of that item in accordance with the requirements for 
determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in AASB 15. AASB 16 applies to disposal by a sale 
and leaseback. 
70 
If, under the recognition principle in paragraph 7, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an item of 
property, plant and equipment the cost of a replacement for part of the item, then it derecognises the 
carrying amount of the replaced part regardless of whether the replaced part had been depreciated 
separately. If it is not practicable for an entity to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, it may 
use the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of the replaced part was at the time it was 
acquired or constructed. 
71 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be 
determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of 
the item. 
72 
The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the 
transaction price in paragraphs 47–72 of AASB 15. Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the 
consideration included in the gain or loss shall be accounted for in accordance with the requirements for 
changes in the transaction price in AASB 15. 
Disclosure 
73 
The financial statements shall disclose, for each class of property, plant and equipment: 
(a) 
the measurement bases used for determining the gross carrying amount; 
(b) 
the depreciation methods used; 
(c) 
the useful lives or the depreciation rates used; 
(d) 
the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated 
impairment losses) at the beginning and end of the period; and 
(e) 
a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period showing: 
(i) 
additions; 
(ii) 
assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held 
for sale in accordance with AASB 5 and other disposals; 
(iii) 
acquisitions through business combinations; 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
15 
STANDARD 
(iv) 
increases or decreases resulting from revaluations under paragraphs 31, 39, 
Aus39.1, 40, Aus40.1 and Aus40.2 and from impairment losses recognised or 
reversed in other comprehensive income in accordance with AASB 136; 
(v) 
impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in accordance with AASB 136; 
(vi) 
impairment losses reversed in profit or loss in accordance with AASB 136; 
(vii) 
depreciation; 
(viii) 
the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements 
from the functional currency into a different presentation currency, including the 
translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the reporting 
entity; and 
(ix) 
other changes. 
74 
The financial statements shall also disclose: 
(a) 
the existence and amounts of restrictions on title, and property, plant and equipment 
pledged as security for liabilities; 
(b) 
the amount of expenditures recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant 
and equipment in the course of its construction; and 
(c) 
the amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and 
equipment. 
74A 
If not presented separately in the statement of comprehensive income, the financial statements shall 
also disclose: 
(a) 
the amount of compensation from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment 
that were impaired, lost or given up that is included in profit or loss; and 
(b) 
the amounts of proceeds and cost included in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 
20A that relate to items produced that are not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities, 
and which line item(s) in the statement of comprehensive income include(s) such proceeds 
and cost.  
75 
Selection of the depreciation method and estimation of the useful life of assets are matters of judgement. 
Therefore, disclosure of the methods adopted and the estimated useful lives or depreciation rates provides 
users of financial statements with information that allows them to review the policies selected by 
management and enables comparisons to be made with other entities. For similar reasons, it is necessary to 
disclose:  
(a) 
depreciation, whether recognised in profit or loss or as a part of the cost of other assets, during a 
period; and 
(b) 
accumulated depreciation at the end of the period. 
76 
In accordance with AASB 108 an entity discloses the nature and effect of a change in an accounting 
estimate that has an effect in the current period or is expected to have an effect in subsequent periods. For 
property, plant and equipment, such disclosure may arise from changes in estimates with respect to:  
(a) 
residual values; 
(b) 
the estimated costs of dismantling, removing or restoring items of property, plant and equipment; 
(c) 
useful lives; and 
(d) 
depreciation methods. 
77 
If items of property, plant and equipment are stated at revalued amounts, the following shall be 
disclosed in addition to the disclosures required by AASB 13: 
(a) 
the effective date of the revaluation; 
(b) 
whether an independent valuer was involved; 
(c)–(d) 
[deleted] 
(e) 
for each revalued class of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount that would 
have been recognised had the assets been carried under the cost model; and 
(f) 
the revaluation surplus, indicating the change for the period and any restrictions on the 
distribution of the balance to shareholders. 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
16 
STANDARD 
Aus77.1 
Notwithstanding paragraph 77(e), in respect of not-for-profit entities, for each revalued 
class of property, plant and equipment, the requirement to disclose the carrying amount 
that would have been recognised had the assets been carried under the cost model does not 
apply. 
78 
In accordance with AASB 136 an entity discloses information on impaired property, plant and equipment in 
addition to the information required by paragraph 73(e)(iv)–(vi).  
79 
Users of financial statements may also find the following information relevant to their needs:  
(a) 
the carrying amount of temporarily idle property, plant and equipment; 
(b) 
the gross carrying amount of any fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in 
use; 
(c) 
the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment retired from active use and not classified as 
held for sale in accordance with AASB 5; and 
(d) 
when the cost model is used, the fair value of property, plant and equipment when this is 
materially different from the carrying amount. 
 
Therefore, entities are encouraged to disclose these amounts. 
Transitional provisions 
80 
[Deleted by the AASB] 
80A 
Paragraph 35 in the previous version of this Standard was amended by AASB 2014-1 Amendments to 
Australian Accounting Standards. An entity shall apply that amendment to all revaluations recognised in 
annual periods beginning on or after the date of initial application of that amendment and in the 
immediately preceding annual period. An entity may also present adjusted comparative information for any 
earlier periods presented, but it is not required to do so. If an entity presents unadjusted comparative 
information for any earlier periods, it shall clearly identify the information that has not been adjusted, state 
that it has been presented on a different basis and explain that basis. 
80B 
In the reporting period when AASB 2014-6 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Agriculture: 
Bearer Plants is first applied an entity need not disclose the quantitative information required by 
paragraph 28(f) of IAS 8 for the current period. However, an entity shall present the quantitative 
information required by paragraph 28(f) of IAS 8 for each prior period presented. 
80C 
An entity may elect to measure an item of bearer plants at its fair value at the beginning of the earliest 
period presented in the financial statements for the reporting period in which the entity first applies 
AASB 2014-6 and use that fair value as its deemed cost at that date. Any difference between the previous 
carrying amount and fair value shall be recognised in opening retained earnings at the beginning of the 
earliest period presented. 
80D 
AASB 2020-3 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Annual Improvements 2018–2020 and 
Other Amendments, issued in June 2020, amended paragraphs 17 and 74 and added paragraphs 20A and 
74A. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively, but only to items of property, plant and 
equipment that are brought to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable of operating in 
the manner intended by management on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the 
financial statements in which the entity first applies the amendments. The entity shall recognise the 
cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained 
earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at the beginning of that earliest period presented. 
Effective date 
81 
An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier 
application is encouraged for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but before 1 January 2018. If an 
entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January 2018, it shall disclose that fact. 
81A– 
81D 
[Deleted by the AASB] 
81E 
Paragraph 5 in the previous version of this Standard was amended by AASB 2008-5 Amendments to 
Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual Improvements Project issued in July 2008. An 
entity shall apply that amendment prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
Earlier application is permitted if an entity also applies the amendments to paragraphs 8, 9, 22, 48, 53, 53A, 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
17 
STANDARD 
53B, 54, 57 and 85B of AASB 140 at the same time. If an entity applies the amendment for an earlier period 
it shall disclose that fact. 
81F– 
81G 
[Deleted by the AASB] 
81H 
AASB 2014-1 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards, issued in June 2014 amended the previous 
version of this Standard as follows: amended paragraph 35 and added paragraph 80A. An entity shall apply 
that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an 
entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
81I 
AASB 2014-4 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation, issued in August 2014, amended the previous version of this Standard as 
follows: amended paragraph 56 and added paragraph 62A. An entity shall apply those amendments 
prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an 
entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
81J 
AASB 2014-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from AASB 15, issued in December 
2014, amended the previous version of this Standard as follows: amended paragraphs 68A, 69 and 72. An 
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies AASB 15. 
81K 
AASB 2014-6 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Agriculture: Bearer Plants, issued in 
December 2014, amended the previous version of this Standard as follows: amended paragraphs 3, 6 and 37 
and added paragraphs 22A and 80B–80C. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments 
for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively, in 
accordance with AASB 108, except as specified in paragraph 80C. 
81L 
AASB 16, issued in February 2016, deleted paragraphs 4 and 27 and amended paragraphs 5, 10, 44 and 68–
69. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies AASB 16. 
81M 
AASB 17, issued in July 2017, added paragraphs 29A and 29B. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies AASB 17. 
81N 
AASB 2020-3 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Annual Improvements 2018–2020 and 
Other Amendments, issued in June 2020, amended paragraphs 17 and 74, and added paragraphs 20A, 74A 
and 80D. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2022. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, 
it shall disclose that fact. 
Withdrawal of other pronouncements 
82– 
83 
[Deleted by the AASB] 
Commencement of the legislative instrument 
Aus83.1 
[Repealed] 
Withdrawal of AASB pronouncements 
Aus83.2 
When applied or operative, this Standard repeals AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment 
issued in July 2004. Despite the repeal, after the time this Standard starts to apply under 
section 334 of the Corporations Act (either generally or in relation to an individual entity), the 
repealed Standard continues to apply in relation to any period ending before that time as if the 
repeal had not occurred. 
[Note: When this Standard applies under section 334 of the Corporations Act (either generally or 
in relation to an individual entity), it supersedes the application of the repealed Standard.] 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
18 
APPENDIX A 
Appendix A 
Australian defined terms 
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. 
Aus6.1 
The following term is also used in this Standard with the meaning specified. 
A not-for-profit entity is an entity whose principal objective is not the generation of profit.  A 
not-for-profit entity can be a single entity or a group of entities comprising the parent and 
each of the entities that it controls. 
Aus6.2 
Examples of property, plant and equipment held by not-for-profit public sector entities include, 
but are not limited to, infrastructure, cultural, community and heritage assets. 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
19 
APPENDIX B 
Appendix B 
Australian simplified disclosures for Tier 2 entities 
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. 
AusB1 
Paragraphs 73–79 do not apply to entities preparing general purpose financial statements 
that apply AASB 1060 General Purpose Financial Statements – Simplified Disclosures for 
For-Profit and Not-for-Profit Tier 2 Entities. 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
20 
GUIDANCE 
Australian implementation guidance 
This guidance accompanies, but is not part of, AASB 116. This guidance is pertinent to not-for-profit public sector 
entities that hold heritage or cultural assets. 
G1 
In accordance with paragraphs 7(b), 15 and Aus15.1 of AASB 116, only those heritage and cultural assets 
that can be reliably measured are recognised. It depends on the circumstances as to whether the reliable 
measurement recognition criterion can be satisfied in relation to a particular heritage or cultural asset. 
Heritage and cultural assets acquired for consideration that is significantly less than fair value principally to 
enable the entity to further its objectives are required to be initially recognised at fair value as at the date of 
acquisition. Depending on circumstances, it may not be possible to reliably measure the fair value as at the 
date of acquisition of a heritage or cultural asset.   
G2 
Of those heritage and cultural assets that satisfy the reliable measurement criterion for initial recognition 
purposes, paragraph 29 of AASB 116 permits, but does not require, revaluation. However, under 
AASB 1049 Whole of Government and General Government Sector Financial Reporting, GGSs and whole 
of governments are required to adopt those optional treatments in Australian Accounting Standards that are 
aligned with the principles or rules in the Australian Bureau of Statistics Government Finance Statistics 
(GFS) Manual. Consequently, those entities would be required to adopt a revaluation model for heritage and 
cultural assets recognised under AASB 116 where the reliable measurement recognition criterion is 
satisfied. 
G3 
Furthermore, given the nature of many heritage and cultural assets that meet the recognition criteria, those 
assets may not have limited useful lives (for example, when the entity adopts appropriate curatorial and 
preservation policies), and therefore may not be subject to depreciation.  However, entities should consider 
whether the requirements of AASB 136 Impairment of Assets apply to such assets. 
G4 
The curatorial and preservation policies referred to in paragraph G3 above would typically be those 
developed and monitored by qualified personnel and include the following: 
(a) 
a clearly stated objective about the holding and preservation of items; 
(b) 
a well-developed plan to achieve the objective, including demonstration of how the policy will be 
implemented, based on advice by appropriately qualified experts; 
(c) 
monitoring procedures; and 
(d) 
periodic reviews. 
In addition, there would be evidence that the policies have been adopted by the governing body of the 
entity. 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
21 
COMPILATION DETAILS 
Compilation details 
Accounting Standard AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment (as 
amended) 
Compilation details are not part of AASB 116. 
This compiled Standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023.  It takes into account 
amendments up to and including 15 December 2022 and was prepared on 6 February 2023 by the staff of the 
Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB). 
This compilation is not a separate Accounting Standard made by the AASB.  Instead, it is a representation of 
AASB 116 (August 2015) as amended by other Accounting Standards, which are listed in the table below. 
Table of Standards 
Standard 
Date made 
FRL identifier 
Commence-
ment date 
Effective date 
(annual periods  
… on or after …) 
Application, 
saving or 
transitional 
provisions 
AASB 116 
7 Aug 2015 
F2015L01572 
31 Dec 2016 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2018 
see (a) below 
AASB 2015-8 
22 Oct 2015 
F2015L01840 
31 Dec 2016 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2017 
see (b) below 
AASB 16 
23 Feb 2016 
F2016L00233 
31 Dec 2018 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2019 
see (c) below 
AASB 2016-4 
27 Jun 2016 
F2016L01173 
31 Dec 2016 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2017 
see (d) below 
AASB 1058 
9 Dec 2016 
F2017L00042 
31 Dec 2018 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2019 
see (c) below 
AASB 2016-7 
9 Dec 2016 
F2017L00043 
31 Dec 2016 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2017 
see (e) below 
AASB 17 
19 Jul 2017 
F2017L01184 
31 Dec 2022 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2023 
see (f) below 
AASB 2019-1 
21 May 2019 
F2019L00966 
31 Dec 2019 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2020 
see (g) below 
AASB 1060 
6 Mar 2020 
F2020L00288 
30 Jun 2021 
(beginning) 1 Jul 2021 
see (h) below 
AASB 2020-3 
15 Jun 2020 
F2020L00876 
31 Dec 2021 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2022 
see (i) below 
AASB 2021-7 
20 Dec 2021 
F2021L01883 
31 Dec 2021 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2022 
see (i) below 
AASB 2022-7 
15 Dec 2022 
F2023L00018 
31 Dec 2022 
(beginning) 1 Jan 2023 
see (j) below 
(a) 
AASB 116 applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 (instead of 1 January 2017) as a result of amendments 
made by AASB 2015-8 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Effective Date of AASB 15.  Entities may elect to apply 
this Standard to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but before 1 January 2018. 
(b) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2017, provided that AASB 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers is also applied. 
(c) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2019, provided that AASB 15 is also applied 
to the same period. 
(d) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual reporting periods beginning before 1 January 2017. 
(e) 
AASB 2016-7 deferred the effective date of AASB 15 (and its consequential amendments in AASB 2014-5) for not-for-profit 
entities to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, instead of 1 January 2018.  However, earlier application of 
AASB 116 (2015) incorporating the text that relates to AASB 15 is permitted, provided that AASB 15 is also applied. 
(f) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2023, provided that AASB 9 Financial 
Instruments is also applied on or before the date of initial application of AASB 17.  (AASB 17 was amended prior to its mandatory 
application by various amending Standards, including AASB 2022-8 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Insurance 
Contracts: Consequential Amendments, made by the AASB on 15 December 2022.) 
(g) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2020. 
(h) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 July 2021. 
(i) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2022. 
(j) 
Entities may elect to apply this Standard to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2023. 
Table of amendments to Standard 
Paragraph affected 
How affected 
By … [paragraph/page] 
AusCF1 
added 
AASB 2019-1 [page 19] 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
22 
COMPILATION DETAILS 
Paragraph affected 
How affected 
By … [paragraph/page] 
4 
deleted 
AASB 16 [page 50] 
5 
amended 
AASB 16 [page 50] 
6 – Recoverable amount 
amended 
AASB 2021-7 [31] 
Aus6.2 
amended 
AASB 1058 [page 24] 
10 
amended 
AASB 16 [page 50] 
Aus15.1 
amended 
AASB 1058 [page 23] 
Aus15.2 
deleted 
AASB 1058 [page 23] 
Aus15.3 
amended 
AASB 1058 [page 23] 
17 
amended 
AASB 2020-3 [page 10] 
20A 
added 
AASB 2020-3 [page 10] 
27 
deleted 
AASB 16 [page 50] 
29A-29B 
added 
AASB 17 [page 76] 
44 
amended 
AASB 16 [page 50] 
68 
amended 
AASB 16 [page 51] 
69 
amended 
AASB 16 [page 51] 
74 
amended 
AASB 2020-3 [page 10] 
74A 
added 
AASB 2020-3 [page 10] 
80D 
added 
AASB 2020-3 [page 10] 
81 
amended 
AASB 2015-8 [13] 
81L 
added 
AASB 16 [page 51] 
81M 
added 
AASB 17 [page 77] 
81N 
added 
AASB 2020-3 [page 11] 
Aus83.1 
repealed 
Legislation Act 2003, s. 48D 
Appendix B 
replaced 
AASB 1060 [page 62] 
Table of amendments to implementation guidance 
Paragraph affected 
How affected 
By … [paragraph/page] 
Preamble 
amended 
AASB 1058 [page 24] 
G1 
amended 
AASB 2022-7 [8] 
G3 
amended 
AASB 2016-4 [8] 
 
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
AASB 116-compiled 
23 
DELETED IAS 16 TEXT 
Deleted IAS 16 text 
Deleted IAS 16 text is not part of AASB 116. 
80 
The requirements of paragraphs 24–26 regarding the initial measurement of an item of property, 
plant and equipment acquired in an exchange of assets transaction shall be applied prospectively only 
to future transactions.  
81A 
An entity shall apply the amendments in paragraph 3 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2006. If an entity applies IFRS 6 for an earlier period, those amendments shall be applied for that earlier 
period. 
81B 
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (as revised in 2007) amended the terminology used throughout 
IFRSs. In addition it amended paragraphs 39, 40 and 73(e)(iv). An entity shall apply those amendments for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. If an entity applies IAS 1 (revised 2007) for an earlier 
period, the amendments shall be applied for that earlier period. 
81C 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (as revised in 2008) amended paragraph 44. An entity shall apply that 
amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. If an entity applies IFRS 3 (revised 2008) 
for an earlier period, the amendment shall also be applied for that earlier period. 
81D 
Paragraphs 6 and 69 were amended and paragraph 68A was added by Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 
2008. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose 
that fact and at the same time apply the related amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. 
81F 
IFRS 13, issued in May 2011, amended the definition of fair value and the definition of recoverable amount 
in paragraph 6, amended paragraphs 26, 35 and 77 and deleted paragraphs 32 and 33. An entity shall apply 
those amendments when it applies IFRS 13. 
81G 
Annual Improvements 2009–2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012, amended paragraph 8. An entity shall apply 
that amendment retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
82 
This Standard supersedes IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (revised in 1998).  
83 
This Standard supersedes the following Interpretations:  
(a) 
SIC-6 Costs of Modifying Existing Software; 
(b) 
SIC-14 Property, Plant and Equipment—Compensation for the Impairment or Loss of Items; and 
(c) 
SIC-23 Property, Plant and Equipment—Major Inspection or Overhaul Costs.  
Authorised Version F2023C00192 registered 13/02/2023

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
