Contents (1980 - 19)
Land Titles Act 1980
Long Title
Part I - General
1. Short title
2. Commencement
3. Interpretation
3A. Crown to be bound
Part II - Administration
4. Appointment of Recorder, &c.
5. Seal of oﬃce
6. Powers and immunities of Deputy Recorder, &c.
7. Documents purporting to be sealed or signed by Recorder or Deputy Recorder, &c., to be received in evidence
8. Facsimile signature of Recorder or Deputy Recorder, &c.
Part III - Bringing land under this Act
Division 1 - Crown grant
9. Unalienated land, when alienated in fee, to be subject to this Act
10. Transfers to be used instead of grant deeds
Division 2 - Application
11. Applications to bring land under this Act
12. How application dealt with
13. Notices
14. Caveat forbidding the bringing of land under this Act
15. Withdrawal of application to bring land under Act
Division 3 - Completing the Register
16. Appointed day
17. Land may be brought under this Act on registration of instruments under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935
17A. Land to be brought under this Act upon subdivision
18. Land may be brought under this Act upon subdivision
19. Land may be brought under this Act at the instance of the Recorder
20. Refusal to comply with notice under section 19; making false or misleading statement, &c.
Division 4 - Qualiﬁed title
21. Qualiﬁed title
22. Subsisting estates and interests to be recorded on qualiﬁed title
23. Certain informal dealings may be registered
24. Qualiﬁed title may be cancelled or corrected in certain circumstances
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
1 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
25. Caution to lapse after 20 years
26. Application of this Act to land in qualiﬁed title
Division 5 - General provisions
27. Land not alienated from the Crown may be brought under this Act
27A. Certain Crown land may be brought under this Act
28. How certain estates and interests dealt with when land brought under this Act
28A. Restraining orders not aﬀected when land brought under Act
29. Notice to be given in Registry of Deeds
30. Disposal of antecedent documents of title
31. Persons to produce deeds
32. Land may be described by verbal description if no survey available, &c.
Part IV - The Register and Certiﬁcates of Title
33. The Register, certiﬁcates of title and registration
34. Power of Recorder to make transparencies
34A. Power to sell, destroy or otherwise dispose of certain documents
35. Lost certiﬁcate of title, folio of the Register, or duplicate registered dealing
36. Searches of public records
37. Copies of public records
38. Repealed
Part V - The Eﬀect of Registration
39. Folio of the Register conclusive evidence of title, &c.
40. Estate of registered proprietor indefeasible
41. Purchaser from registered proprietor not to be aﬀected by notice
42. Purchasers and mortgagees protected
43. Validity of registration in name of deceased person
44. Persons jointly registered to be joint tenants
45. In suit for speciﬁc performance, folio of the Register conclusive evidence of title, &c.
46. Folio of the Register void in certain cases
47. Certiﬁcate, recording, &c., procured by fraud void as between all parties to fraud
Part VI - Estates and Interests in Land and Registration of Dealings
Division 1 - General provisions
48. Dealings to be attested; order of registration; priority of dealings
48A. Lodgement of dealings and instruments
48B. Authority for lodgement by electronic process
48C. Lodgement of supporting documents
49. Instruments not eﬀectual until registered
50. Dealings not to be registered except in accordance with this Act
51. Recording of dealing on certiﬁcate of title, &c.
52. Priority notices
52A. Attorney-General to give notice of forfeiture orders
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
2 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
53. Dealing may be registered prior to grant from the Crown
54. Delivery of certiﬁcate of title or duplicate registered dealing
55. Eﬀect of reference to plan
56. General covenants implied in dealings
57. Implied covenants may be modiﬁed or negatived
Division 2 - Transfers
58. Transfer
59. Transferee of land subject to mortgage or encumbrance to indemnify transferor
60. Transfers of mortgages, encumbrances, and leases
61. Sale under writ
62. Dealings with lands of the Crown under Act
Division 3 - Severance of joint tenancy
63. Severance of joint tenancy
Division 4 - Leases
64. Leases
65. Surrender of lease
66. Covenants implied in every lease against lessee
67. Powers in lessor
68. Recovery of possession and determination of lease
69. Provisions of Act as to leases to apply, with necessary modiﬁcations, to subleases
70. Extension or variation of lease
71. Folio of the Register for a leasehold estate
Division 5 - Mortgages and encumbrances
72. Creation of mortgage or encumbrance
73. Mortgage or encumbrance not to operate as transfer
74. Covenants implied in every memorandum of mortgage
75. Submortgages
76. Postponement of mortgages and encumbrances
77. Procedure in case of default
78. Power to sell and appropriation of proceeds
79. Power of mortgagee to sell or lease mortgaged land and other land together
80. Notice or lapse of time may be dispensed with
81. Eﬀect of registration of sale by mortgagee or encumbrancee
82. Remedies of mortgagee or encumbrancee upon default
83. Mortgagee or encumbrancee may distrain for arrears of money secured under mortgage or encumbrance
84. Mortgagee or encumbrancee of leasehold entering into possession of rent and proﬁts becomes liable to lessor
85. Mortgagee may apply to Recorder for order for foreclosure
86. Order for foreclosure
87. First mortgagee or encumbrancee to produce title for registration of subsequent dealing
88. Variation of terms of mortgage and encumbrance
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
3 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
89. Discharge of mortgage and encumbrance
90. Recorder may facilitate discharge of mortgage in certain cases
91. Application for order declaring mortgage, &c., discharged
92. Caveat by persons claiming under mortgage, &c.
93. Registration of order
94. Recording of satisfaction of encumbrance
Division 6 - Transmissions
95. Interpretation
96. Transmission on bankruptcy
97. Disclaimer or lease under Commonwealth Act
98. Transmission on death (old procedure)
99. Transmission on death to personal representative
100. Registration of survivor of joint proprietors, &c.
Division 7 - Re-entry on condition broken
101. Re-entry determining fee
Division 8 - Covenants running with the land
102. Covenants which run with freehold registered land
103. Eﬀect of identity of parties to covenant
104. Discharge of covenants
104A. Discharge of covenants in gross
Division 9 - Easements and proﬁts à prendre
105. Creation of easements
106. The Register as evidence of easements
107. Proﬁts à prendre
108. Release and extinguishment of easements and proﬁts à prendre
109. Eﬀect of unity of seisin on registered easements, &c.
110. Rectiﬁcation of easements, &c., in old subdivisions
Division 10 - Recording of highways
111. Highways not to be registered as estates
112. Recording of highways
Division 11 - Estates tail
113. Tenancies in tail to pass fee simple
114. Where successive life estates are given to parent and child with estate tail to grandchild, parent and child may
bar entail
115. Tenant in tail under this Act entitled to deal with estate as eﬀectually as tenant in tail under general law
116. Transferee from tenant in tail may be registered for larger estate which tenant may confer
Division 12 - Repealed
117. Repealed
118. Repealed
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
4 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
119. Repealed
120. Repealed
121. Repealed
122. Repealed
123. Repealed
124. Repealed
Division 13 - Compulsory acquisition
125. Interpretation
126. Registration of acquiring authority as proprietor
127. Acquiring authority to be responsible to persons injured by operation of this Division
128. Acquiring authority not to have claim in respect of acquired land
129. Notice to treat, or notice of intention to acquire to be given to Recorder
130. Repealed
Part VII - Settled Land
131. Application of Settled Land Act 1884 to land held under this Act
Part VIII - Trusts
132. Trusts
Part IX - Caveats
Division 1 - Caveats against dealings
133. Caveat against dealings
134. Caveat may be lodged by judgment creditor
135. Proceedings to remove caveat
136. Lapsing of caveat on registration of dealing
136A. Cancellation of caveat on application of proprietor of estate or interest
137. No registration aﬀecting land in respect of which caveat lodged
Division 2 - Compensation for lodging caveat without suﬃcient cause
138. Compensation for lodging caveat without suﬃcient cause
Part IXA - Orders to vest land
138A. Registration as proprietor of person entitled to land by operation of any Act
138B. Recorder to carry out order of Supreme Court vesting trust estate
138C. Registration of dealing by person appointed by court
138D. Recorder may make vesting order in certain circumstances when purchaser in possession
138E. Caveat forbidding granting of application under section 138D
138F. Restriction on renewal of caveats
Part IXB - Possessory Title
Division 1 - Preliminary
138G. Interpretation
138H. Application to unregistered land
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
5 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Division 2 - Right to acquire easements
138I. Abolition of common law rules
138J. Acquisition of easements by possession
Division 3 - Procedure for vesting of easements
138K. Applicant to notify owner of servient tenement
138L. Requirements for application
138M. Tenants in common
138N. No easement in gross
138P. Character of easement
138Q. Power of Recorder to make recordings, &c.
138R. Abolition of claim for proﬁt à prendre
Division 4 - Caveat by owner
138S. Power of owner to lodge caveat
Division 5 - Title by possession
138T. Title by possession
138U. Restriction on title by possession
138V. Requirements for title by possession
138W. Registered proprietor to hold land on trust
138X. Power of Recorder to make vesting order
138Y. Avoidance of sub-minimum lots
Division 6 - Caveats against easements and title by possession
138Z. Caveat forbidding granting of application under this Part
138ZA. Restriction on renewal of caveats
Part X - Amendment of the Register
139. Correction of errors
140. Cancellation of superﬂuous recordings
141. Powers of Supreme Court to direct cancellation of folio or recording in certain cases
142. Rectiﬁcation of boundaries, area or position of land
143. Eﬀect of certain corrections
Part XA - Approval of Plans
143A. Recorder may specify format, &c., of certain plans
143B. Recorder may require information, &c., in respect of plans, &c.
143C. Recorder may correct errors on plans
143D. Recorder may require substitute plans
143E. Balance plans to be provided
143F. Notice of rejection of plan to be given
143G. Giving of notice
143H. Accompanying document deﬁned
143I. Power of Recorder to rearrange plans
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
6 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Part XI - Civil Rights and Remedies
Division 1 - General
144. Proprietor if dissatisﬁed may summon Recorder to show cause
145. Action by person claiming as beneﬁciary may be brought in name of trustee
146. Mortgagee, encumbrancee or lessor may obtain possession in certain cases
147. Right of mortgagee of lease not to be barred
148. Right of mortgagor or encumbrancer tendering principal, &c., and paying same to Treasurer to obtain
discharge of mortgage, &c.
149. Registered proprietor protected against ejectment, except in certain cases
Division 2 - The assurance fund and compensation from that fund
150. The assurance fund
151. Assurance fund not liable in certain cases
152. Compensation for party deprived of land
153. When action may lie against Recorder as nominal defendant
154. Date of deprivation in certain cases
155. Person sustaining loss may apply for compensation
156. Notice of action
157. Results of action
158. Limitation of actions
159. Moneys paid out of assurance fund may be recovered
Part XII - General Powers, Duties, and Immunities of Recorder
160. General powers of Recorder
160A. Power of Recorder to issue directions
161. Recorder may state case for Supreme Court
162. Recorder may require map to be deposited
163. Power of Recorder to call in certiﬁcate of title, &c., in certain cases
164. Powers of Court and Recorder
165. Protection of Recorder
166. Payment of money received by Recorder to persons entitled under this Act
Part XIII - Miscellaneous
167. Jurisdiction in relation to oﬀences
168. Service, &c., of notices
169. Repealed
169A. Power of Recorder to approve forms
169B. False representation as to approved forms
169C. Recording of common provisions
169D. Incorporation of common provisions
169E. Prescribed fees
169EA. Exemptions from fees
169F. Validation
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
7 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
170. Regulations
170A. Combination of forms
170B. Duty of Recorder to transmit certain information
171.
172. Transitional provision
173. Repeal
Schedule 1 - Consequential Amendments
Schedule 2 - ACTS REPEALED
Schedule 3 - Prescribed fees
Land Titles Act 1980
Version current from 13 June 2023 to date (accessed 28 April 2025 at 21:10)
Land Titles Act 1980
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the registration of title to land, easements and
possessory titles
[Royal Assent 21 May 1980]
Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Council and House of Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
8 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART I - General
1.   Short title
This Act may be cited as the Land Titles Act 1980 .
2.   Commencement
(1)  This section and section 1 shall commence on the date of assent to this Act.
(2)  Except as provided in subsection (1) , this Act shall commence on such date as may be fixed by
proclamation.
3.   Interpretation
(1)  In this Act, except in so far as the context or subject matter otherwise indicates or requires –
approved form means a form approved by the Recorder under section 169A ;
Assistant Recorder of Titles means an Assistant Recorder of Titles appointed pursuant to section
4 (3A) ;
assurance fund means the assurance fund referred to in section 150 ;
caveator means the person by whom or on whose behalf a caveat has been lodged;
dealing means any document in writing (other than a grant) which is registrable or capable of
being made registrable under this Act or in respect of which any recording in the Register is by
this or any other Act required or permitted to be made and includes a priority notice, but for the
purposes of Part IX does not include a caveat or a withdrawal of a caveat;
Deputy Recorder means the Deputy Recorder of Titles appointed pursuant to section 4 (3) ;
duplicate registered dealing means the duplicate of a registered dealing delivered pursuant to
section 48 (6) ;
electronic communication has the same meaning as in the Electronic Transactions Act 2000 ;
electronic dealing means a dealing that is an electronic communication;
encumbrance means any charge on land created for the purpose of securing a current, future or
contingent payment of an annuity, rent-charge, or sum of money other than a debt;
encumbrancee means the proprietor of an encumbrance;
encumbrancer means the registered proprietor of land subject to an encumbrance;
forestry right has the meaning assigned to that expression in the Forestry Rights Registration Act
1990 ;
grant means the grant of any land of the Crown;
instrument includes any grant, certificate of title, conveyance, assurance, deed, map, plan,
survey, will, probate, or exemplification of will or probate, or any other document in writing
relating to the disposition, devolution, or acquisition of land or evidencing title to land;
land includes –
(a) messuages, tenements and hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, of every kind and
description (whatever may be the estate or interest in them), together with all paths,
passages, ways, waters, watercourses, liberties, privileges, easements, plantations,
gardens, mines, minerals and quarries and all trees and timber on land or lying or being
under land; and
(b) any structure which is above land but permanently anchored to, or otherwise kept in
place above, the land;
legal practitioner means an Australian legal practitioner;
lessee means the registered proprietor of a lease;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
9 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lessor means the registered proprietor of the reversion immediately expectant upon the expiration
of a registered lease;
mortgage means any charge on land created merely for securing a debt;
mortgagee means the proprietor of a mortgage;
mortgagor means the registered proprietor of land subject to a mortgage;
newspaper does not include a newspaper published solely in electronic form;
office copy, in relation to an order, means a copy of the order that is certified by a legal
practitioner, a justice or a Commissioner for Declarations to be a true copy of the order;
proclaimed date means the date fixed by proclamation under section 2 (2) ;
proprietor means any person seised or possessed of any estate or interest in land at law or in
equity, in possession, in futurity, or in expectancy;
public record means a public record referred to in section 36 ;
qualified title means a folio of the Register on which is recorded a caution in accordance with
section 21 (2) ;
Recorder means the Recorder of Titles appointed pursuant to section 4 (1) ;
Register means the register of title referred to in section 33 ;
registered means registered under this Act or any of the Acts specified in Schedule 2 ;
registered land means land which is subject to this Act;
registered proprietor means any person appearing by a folio of the Register, or by any registered
dealing, to be the proprietor of any estate or interest in registered land;
repealed Act means the Real Property Act 1862 ;
transfer means the passing of any estate or interest in land under this Act, whether for valuable
consideration or otherwise;
transmission means the acquisition of title to, or an interest in, land, consequent on the death,
will, intestacy, or bankruptcy of a proprietor.
(2)  The describing of any person as owner, proprietor, transferor, transferee, mortgagor, mortgagee,
encumbrancer, encumbrancee, lessor, or lessee, or as seised of or having or taking any estate or interest
in any land, shall include the executors, administrators, and assigns of that person.
3A.   Crown to be bound
This Act binds the Crown, not only in right of Tasmania but also, so far as the legislative power of
Parliament permits, the Crown in all its other capacities.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
10 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART II - Administration
4.   Appointment of Recorder, &c.
(1)  The Governor may appoint a State Service officer or State Service employee to be Recorder of
Titles, and that officer or employee is to hold that office in conjunction with State Service employment.
(2)  A person is not eligible for appointment as Recorder of Titles unless the person is –
(a) a legal practitioner of not less than 5 years' standing; or
(b) an Australian lawyer who has been a legal practitioner for at least 5 years.
(3)  The Governor may appoint a State Service officer or State Service employee to be Deputy Recorder
of Titles, and that officer or employee is to hold that office in conjunction with State Service
employment.
(3A)  The Governor may appoint State Service officers and State Service employees to an office of
Assistant Recorder of Titles and officers and employees so appointed are to hold office in conjunction
with State Service employment.
(4)  Subject to and in accordance with the State Service Act 2000 , such persons as may be considered
necessary may be appointed or employed for the purposes of this or any other Act.
5.   Seal of office
The Recorder shall have and use a seal of office, bearing the impression of the arms of the State, and
having inscribed in the margin thereof the words "Recorder of Titles, Tasmania".
6.   Powers and immunities of Deputy Recorder, &c.
Anything that is by law or practice appointed, authorized, or required to be done by the Recorder may
lawfully be done by the Deputy Recorder or a person appointed to the office of Assistant Recorder of
Titles who when so doing has the same immunities and protection from suits as the Recorder.
7.   Documents purporting to be sealed or signed by Recorder or Deputy Recorder, &c., to be received in
evidence
All documents, whether purporting to be issued or written by or under the direction of the Recorder, and
purporting either to be sealed with the Recorder’s seal of office or signed by the Recorder or by the
Deputy Recorder or a person appointed to the office of Assistant Recorder of Titles, shall, if admissible,
be received in evidence, and shall be deemed to have been issued or written by or under the direction of
the Recorder, without further proof, unless the contrary is shown.
8.   Facsimile signature of Recorder or Deputy Recorder, &c.
Whenever it is required or permitted by this or any other Act that the Recorder, the Deputy Recorder or
an Assistant Recorder of Titles sign any document, memorial, recording, certificate, endorsement, or
plan, the Recorder, Deputy Recorder or an Assistant Recorder may –
(a) attach; or
(b) authorize an officer to attach –
a facsimile of the signature of the Recorder, Deputy Recorder or Assistant Recorder of Titles,
respectively, to the document, memorial, recording, certificate, endorsement, or plan and the facsimile so
attached has the same force and effect as if the Recorder, Deputy Recorder or an Assistant Recorder, as
the case may be, had personally signed the Recorder’s, Deputy Recorder’s or Assistant Recorder of
Titles’ name in the place of the facsimile signature, and all courts and judges shall take judicial notice of
the facsimile signature of the Recorder, Deputy Recorder and Assistant Recorder and shall presume that
it was properly attached.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
11 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART III - Bringing land under this Act
Division 1 - Crown grant
9.   Unalienated land, when alienated in fee, to be subject to this Act
Except as provided in section 10 (3) , all unalienated lands of the Crown, when alienated in fee, become
subject to this Act.
10.   Transfers to be used instead of grant deeds
(1)  Except as provided in subsection (3) , land of the Crown that is not under this Act shall not be
granted by letters patent but shall be granted by transfer in an approved form as if it had already been
brought under this Act.
(2)  The Recorder, upon receiving a transfer under subsection (1) , shall create a folio of the Register for
the land comprised in the transfer, and upon a folio being created the transfer shall be deemed to be duly
registered, and duly enrolled of record.
(3)  When the Crown grants an easement to be appurtenant only to land that is not registered land, the
grant shall be effected by letters patent as if this section had not been enacted.
(4)  Where an easement is granted by letters patent in pursuance of subsection (3) , the letters patent shall
be registered under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 as an instrument and delivered to the grantee.
(5)  On the registration of letters patent as provided in subsection (4) , the letters patent shall be deemed
to have been duly enrolled of record.
Division 2 - Application
11.   Applications to bring land under this Act
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) , land may be brought under this Act on the application in writing in an
approved form of any of the following persons:
(a) the person claiming to be the owner of the fee simple either at law or in equity;
(b) the person claiming to be entitled to a grant in fee from the Crown of any land under or by
virtue of a contract with the Crown (other than a contract under any Act relating to the sale of
Crown lands), or in equity and good conscience;
(c) the tenant for life, or person having the powers of a tenant for life, under the Settled Land Act
1884 ;
(d) the guardian of an infant or the administrator of the estate of a person under the Guardianship
and Administration Act 1995 , if –
(i) the infant or patient would have been entitled, if not under disability, to apply under
paragraph (a) , paragraph (b) , or paragraph (c) ; and
(ii) the application contains a direction that the infant or patient shall be registered as
proprietor;
(e) a person holding power of attorney authorizing the sale of a freehold estate in the land in the
name of the proprietor of that land, unless the power expressly prohibits the person making such
an application;
(f) the legal practitioner acting for a person referred to in paragraph (a) , (b) , (c) , (d) or (e) .
(2)  An application under this section shall not be made by –
(a) a person claiming to be entitled to an undivided share of any land, unless the person who
appears to be entitled to the other undivided shares of the land joins in the application with a
view to bringing the entirety under this Act; or
(b) a tenant for life, or person having the powers of a tenant for life, under the Settled Land Act
1884 unless –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
12 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(i) the tenant for life, or the person having the powers of a tenant for life, is selling or
exchanging the fee simple pursuant to a provision of that Act or the Settled Land Act
1911 and directs that the purchaser or person to whom the fee simple is given in exchange
shall be registered as proprietor; or
(ii) in the case of a life tenant in possession –
(A) where there is a vested estate in expectancy in the land (other than an estate
vested in an infant), the application contains a direction that the person entitled to
that estate shall be registered as proprietor of that estate; or
(B) where there is a vested estate in expectancy in the land to which an infant is
entitled, or there is an estate in expectancy in the land capable of taking effect on
the happening of a future event, the application contains a direction that the
trustee of the settlement under which the estate in expectancy was created shall be
registered as proprietor of that estate –
so that upon the granting of the application and compliance with the direction, all the
vested estates in the land are brought under this Act.
(3)  A person who lodges an application under this section or a mortgagee or other person who has, in
the person’s possession or under the person’s control, instruments constituting or in any way affecting
the title of the land to which the application relates shall lodge those instruments and also, if required, an
abstract of the title to that land with the Recorder.
(4)  A person referred to in subsection (3) shall not lodge with the Recorder any instruments which a
purchaser of the land to which the application relates would not be entitled to require pursuant to section
35 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1884 .
(5)  A chamber in a building standing on land that is not under this Act shall not be brought under this
Act separately from the land and building.
12.   How application dealt with
(1)  The Recorder may –
(a) do or require to be done such things as will, in the opinion of the Recorder, justify the
Recorder in bringing the land to which an application under section 11 relates under this Act; and
(b) subject to sections 13 and 14 , bring the land under this Act by creating a folio of the Register
for the land.
(2)  In considering an application under section 11 in respect of land unalienated in fee from the Crown,
the Recorder shall be guided by equity and good conscience and by the best evidence that can or may be
procured, even though it is not such as the Recorder might require in other cases.
(3)  Where, on considering an application under section 11 , the Recorder is of the opinion that the
applicant's title is open to objection but is nevertheless a title the holding under which will not be
disturbed, the Recorder may bring the land under this Act with a title other than a qualified title.
(4)  Where an application under section 11 by a person claiming a life estate in possession directs that
the person entitled to a vested estate in expectancy in the land shall be registered as proprietor of the
estate in expectancy, the Recorder may refuse to bring the land to which the application relates under this
Act unless the Recorder approves the title to the life estate and the vested estate in expectancy, and
brings all the vested estates in the land under this Act.
13.   Notices
(1)  Where an application under section 11 is based on a claim by possession under a statute of
limitations (other than a claim against the Crown), the applicant is to –
(a) post on the land, or at such place as the Recorder directs, and keep so posted for not less than
30 days before the granting of the application; and
(b) publish, not less than 30 days before the granting of the application, in at least one newspaper
that is published, and circulating generally, in Tasmania and that is available in the locality in
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
13 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
which the relevant land is situated –
a notice of the application in such form as the Recorder directs.
(2)  The Recorder may refuse to bring land under this Act in a case to which subsection (1) applies until
it has been proved to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the requirements of that subsection have been
complied with.
(3)  A notice under this section shall specify a time (being not less than 30 days) after the expiration of
which the Recorder may, unless a caveat is lodged forbidding it, bring the land under this Act.
14.   Caveat forbidding the bringing of land under this Act
(1)  A person who claims an estate or interest in land that is the subject of an application under section
11 may, before the creation of a folio of the Register for that land, lodge a caveat with the Recorder in
accordance with an approved form forbidding the bringing of the land under this Act.
(2)  The Recorder, on the lodgement of a caveat pursuant to subsection (1) , shall notify the person who
lodged an application under section 11 in respect of the land and shall not proceed with the application
until –
(a) the caveat has been withdrawn or has lapsed as provided in subsection (3) ; or
(b) a judgment or order in the matter has been obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3)  On the expiration of 30 days after lodgement, a caveat lodged pursuant to subsection (1) lapses and
ceases to have any effect unless the caveator has, within that period –
(a) commenced proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to establish the caveator’s title to
the estate or interest specified in the caveat and has given written notice that the caveator has
commenced proceedings to the Recorder, in which case the Recorder shall not proceed with the
application until those proceedings have been determined; or
(b) obtained and served on the Recorder an injunction or order of a court of competent
jurisdiction restraining the Recorder from bringing the land under this Act, in which case the
Recorder shall not proceed with the application while that injunction or order is in force.
(4)  Unless permitted by a Supreme Court order, a caveat that has lapsed under subsection (3) may not be
renewed and a new caveat may not be lodged by or on behalf of the same person in respect of the same
estate or interest.
(5)  Section 133 (5) and (6) and section 135 apply to a caveat lodged pursuant to subsection (1) .
15.   Withdrawal of application to bring land under Act
An applicant may withdraw the applicant’s application to bring land under this Act at any time before
the creation of a folio of the Register for that land, and on the withdrawal of the application the Recorder
shall return the muniments of title lodged in support of the application to the person from whom the
Recorder received them.
Division 3 - Completing the Register
16.   Appointed day
(1)  The expression appointed day, in relation to a provision of this Division, means such day as the
Governor, by order, declares to be the appointed day for the purposes of that provision.
(2)  The Governor may declare different appointed days in respect of the provisions of this Division.
17.   Land may be brought under this Act on registration of instruments under the Registration of Deeds
Act 1935
(1)  A person who lodges for registration under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935  –
(a) a conveyance on sale; or
(b) a legal mortgage by conveyance of the fee simple; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
14 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(ba) any other instrument that affects land –
shall leave with the Recorder, in addition to the documents required by section 12 of that Act  –
(c) a statement in an approved form signed by the purchaser or mortgagor or by the legal
practitioner acting for and on behalf of the purchaser or mortgagor and addressed to the
Recorder, which shall state the facts of the ownership of the land and such further information as
may be required by the form; and
(d) all instruments, in the person’s possession or under the person’s control, constituting or in any
way affecting the title to the land except any instruments which a purchaser of the land to which
the statement relates would not be entitled to require pursuant to section 35 of the Conveyancing
and Law of Property Act 1884 , and also, if required, an abstract of that title.
(1A)  A person who lodges for registration under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 a forestry right
shall leave with the Recorder, in addition to the documents required by section 12 of that Act  –
(a) a statement in a form approved by the Recorder signed by the owner of the land over which
the forestry right is granted or by the legal practitioner acting for and on behalf of that owner and
addressed to the Recorder, which shall state the facts of the ownership of the land and such
further information as may be required by the form; and
(b) all instruments, in the person’s possession or under the person’s control, constituting or in any
way affecting the title to the land except any instruments which a purchaser of the land to which
the statement relates would not be entitled to require pursuant to section 35 of the Conveyancing
and Law of Property Act 1884 , and also, if required, an abstract of that title.
(2)  The Recorder may refuse to register a conveyance on sale, a legal mortgage by conveyance of the
fee simple, another instrument that affects land or a forestry right unless it is accompanied by a statement
and other instruments as required by subsection (1) or (1A) .
(3)  On registering under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 a conveyance, mortgage, other instrument
or forestry right to which subsection (1) or (1A) applies the Recorder may, if the Recorder thinks fit –
(a) bring the land comprised in the conveyance, mortgage, other instrument or forestry right
under this Act by creating a folio of the Register for that land; and
(b) for the purposes of so bringing the land under this Act, return the conveyance, mortgage,
other instrument or forestry right and any other instruments in the Recorder’s custody to the
lodging party.
(4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
17A.   Land to be brought under this Act upon subdivision
(1)  On and after the appointed day the owner of land which is not registered land shall not subdivide
any land –
(a) held under the same title; or
(b) included in one subsisting legal mortgage by conveyance of the fee simple –
unless the owner has made an application under section 11 to bring the land under this Act.
Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.
(2)  In subsection (1) subdivide, in respect of land, means to divide the surface of that land legally by
creating estates or interests giving separate rights of occupation.
18.   Land may be brought under this Act upon subdivision
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
15 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Recorder may refuse to accept a sealed plan under Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 that is lodged with the Recorder on or after the appointed day and
that includes land which is not registered land until all the land –
(a) held under the same title as any of the land included in the plan; or
(b) included in one subsisting legal mortgage by conveyance of the fee simple with any of the
land included in the plan –
whichever the Recorder, in the Recorder’s discretion, directs, is brought under this Act.
19.   Land may be brought under this Act at the instance of the Recorder
(1)  The Recorder may on or after the appointed day cause notice to be given to any person requiring the
person, within a time specified in the notice, not being a time less than 30 days from the date of the
notice –
(a) to inform the Recorder in writing whether the person claims an estate or interest in land (not
being registered land) specified in the notice;
(b) where the person claims an estate or interest by virtue of an assurance or other disposition or
by devolution in law –
(i) to furnish to the Recorder a statement in an approved form; and
(ii) to produce to the Recorder all instruments constituting or in any way affecting the
person’s title to the land that are in the person’s possession or under the person’s control
or in the possession or under the control of the mortgagee of the land except any
instruments which a purchaser would not be entitled to require pursuant to section 35 of
the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1884 ; and
(c) where the person claims an estate by the operation of a statute of limitations, to furnish to the
Recorder such evidence in support of that claim as the person possesses.
(2)  Where the Recorder has given notice under subsection (1) the Recorder may bring any land
specified in the notice under this Act by creating a folio of the Register for that land.
(3)  The Recorder shall, as far as possible, use the Recorder’s powers under this section so that by the
operation of sections 17 and 18 and this section all land (other than Crown land) which is not registered
land shall be brought under this Act.
20.   Refusal to comply with notice under section 19; making false or misleading statement, &c.
(1)  Any person who wilfully refuses or neglects to comply with any requirement of a notice given to the
person under section 19 is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding 5 penalty units and a daily fine not exceeding one penalty unit.
(2)  Any person who makes a statement under section 17 (1) (c) or section 19 (1) (b) , or furnishes the
Recorder with evidence under section 19 (1) (c) , that to the person’s knowledge is false or misleading in
a material particular is guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding 50
penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
Division 4 - Qualified title
21.   Qualified title
(1)  Land may be brought under this Act with a qualified title where –
(a) an applicant under section 11  –
(i) fails to satisfy the Recorder that the applicant is entitled to the estate that the applicant
claims;
(ii) fails to do or prove to the Recorder's satisfaction such things or matters as the
Recorder may have required the applicant to do or prove in order to justify the bringing of
the land under this Act; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
16 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(iii) requests the Recorder to register a qualified title;
(b) the proprietor of land to which section 17 applies or a person to whom the Recorder has given
notice under section 19 requests the Recorder to register a qualified title;
(c) the Recorder is doubtful whether the title of any person to whom any provision of Division 3
of this Part applies is a title the holding under which will not be disturbed; or
(d) under any Act the Recorder is directed or empowered to register a qualified title.
(2)  Where land is brought under this Act with a qualified title a caution shall be recorded on the folio of
the Register for that land and may be –
(a) a general caution, that is to say, a caution that the registered proprietor holds the registered
proprietor’s estate subject to all estates and interests in the land created before the land was
brought under this Act; or
(b) a particular caution, that is to say, a caution that the registered proprietor holds the registered
proprietor’s estate subject to any defect in title or the estate or interest of any person the existence
or probable or possible existence of which is indicated in a minute signed by the Recorder and
filed in the office of the Recorder.
(3)  The Recorder's minute for the purpose of subsection (2) (b)  –
(a) shall set forth any defect in the title or any estate or interest or probable or possible estate or
interest of any person in the land and the acts or matters that ought to be done or proved and the
requisitions that ought to be complied with in order to justify the cancellation of the caution
recorded on the folio of the Register;
(b) does not form part of the Register; and
(c) shall be made available for inspection by any person on payment of the prescribed fee (if
any).
(4)  The Recorder may revise and amend a minute under subsection (2) so as to indicate which of the
defects, estates, or interests referred to in the minute have been removed or resolved and which of the
acts, matters, or requisitions so referred to have been done, proved, or complied with.
(5)  Where a general caution is recorded on a folio of the Register, the Recorder may at any time cancel
that caution and substitute a particular caution.
(6)  The Recorder may, upon production to the Recorder of such evidence of title as the Recorder deems
sufficient, cancel a caution recorded on a folio of the Register.
22.   Subsisting estates and interests to be recorded on qualified title
(1)  When bringing land under this Act with qualified title, the Recorder shall record on the relevant
folio of the Register any subsisting estate or interest then apparent to the Recorder, but shall not be
concerned to make searches or inquiries as to the existence of any such interest.
(2)  The Recorder may, at any time after the creation of a qualified title –
(a) if a general caution is recorded on the qualified title, record on that qualified title any
additional subsisting estate or interest in the land comprised in the title; or
(b) if a particular caution is recorded on the qualified title, record on that qualified title any
additional subsisting estate or interest the existence or probable or possible existence of which is
indicated in the relevant Recorder's minute –
and, in either case, in such a manner as to preserve the priority that the additional estate or interest would
have had if it had been recorded on the relevant folio of the Register when the land was first brought
under this Act.
23.   Certain informal dealings may be registered
An instrument that affects any land brought under this Act and that might have been registered under the
Registration of Deeds Act 1935 if the land had not been brought under this Act may, in the discretion of
the Recorder, be registered under this Act notwithstanding that it is not an instrument in an approved
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
17 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
form, and when registered has effect for all purposes as if it were such an instrument.
24.   Qualified title may be cancelled or corrected in certain circumstances
(1)  If, on application made to the Recorder for that purpose, it appears to the Recorder that the
proprietor of an estate or interest in the land comprised in a qualified title has suffered judgment for the
recovery of the land or a declaration, injunction, or other judgment destructive of that proprietor's estate
or interest wholly or in part, the Recorder –
(a) must cancel or correct the folio of the Register relating to that land; and
(b) must call in and cancel or correct the corresponding certificate of title, if any, as the
circumstances may require.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3) , a person who claims an estate of freehold in the whole or any part of the
land comprised in a qualified title of which some other person is the registered proprietor may apply to
have the land brought under this Act as if that qualified title had not been created, and the Recorder, if
satisfied of the grounds of the applicant’s claim, shall –
(a) correct the folio of the Register; or
(b) cancel the folio of the Register constituting the qualified title and create a folio of the Register
in the name of the applicant –
and shall call in the certificate of title, if any, corresponding to the corrected or cancelled folio of the
Register and correct or cancel it as the circumstances require.
(3)  Where a particular caution is recorded on a folio of the Register, a person may apply under
subsection (2) only if the person claims an estate or interest the existence or probable or possible
existence of which is indicated in the Recorder's minute or arising from a defect in title indicated in the
minute.
25.   Caution to lapse after 20 years
(1)  A caution lapses, unless it sooner ceases to have effect, at the expiration of a period of 20 years after
the date on which the land was brought under this Act or the repealed Act .
(2)  Where a caution lapses under this section the Recorder shall as soon as practicable cancel the
caution.
(3)  The lapsing of a caution under this section operates to free the land in respect of which it lapsed
from any estates and interests that affected the land at the date on which it was brought under this Act or
the repealed Act , except an estate or interest which is preserved by section 40 , section 46 ,
section 138W(4) or section 138X(4) or which was immediately before the lapsing –
(a) recorded on the relevant folio of the Register; or
(b) the subject of a caveat affecting the land comprised in that folio.
26.   Application of this Act to land in qualified title
The provisions of this Act apply in respect of land comprised in a qualified title in like manner as if that
qualified title were a title to the land comprised in a folio of the Register upon which no caution is
recorded except that –
(a) if a general caution is recorded on the qualified title and the caution has not lapsed, the land
comprised in the title is subject to every estate and interest in the land created before the date on
which the land was brought under this Act or the repealed Act ; and
(b) if a particular caution is recorded on the qualified title and the caution has not lapsed, the land
comprised in the title is subject to any defect in title or any estate or interest of any person the
existence or probable or possible existence of which is indicated in the Recorder's minute.
Division 5 - General provisions
27.   Land not alienated from the Crown may be brought under this Act
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
18 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land may be brought under this Act pursuant to Division 2 or Division 3 whether or not it has been
alienated from the Crown and, where there appears to be no deed of grant or transfer from the Crown, no
such deed or transfer is necessary before the Recorder brings the land under this Act.
27A.   Certain Crown land may be brought under this Act
(1)  This section does not apply to, or in relation to, any land in respect of which an application under
section 11 has been made.
(2)  The Recorder may, on the application of the Director-General of Lands, bring under this Act any
land of the Crown by creating a folio of the Register for the land.
(3)  Where land is brought under this Act pursuant to subsection (2)  –
(a) the Crown shall be registered as the proprietor of the land for an estate in fee simple;
(b) the land remains subject to any limitation, exception, reservation, condition, or restriction to
which it was subject immediately before it was so brought under this Act; and
(c) the Recorder may record on the folio created under that subsection such particulars as the
Recorder considers appropriate relating to any matter affecting the land in force under the Crown
Lands Act 1976 or any other Act.
(4)  The Recorder may at any time cancel or amend in such manner as the Recorder considers
appropriate an endorsement made on a folio under subsection (3) (c) .
(5)  Where particulars of a lease are recorded in the folio of the Register under subsection (3) (c) , the
Recorder may –
(a) create a folio of the Register for the lease; and
(b) record in that folio as the registered proprietor of the lease the name of a person who, in the
opinion of the Recorder, is so entitled.
(6)  In an application made under subsection (2) , the Director-General of Lands may –
(a) create any easement, covenant, limitation, exception, reservation, condition or restriction that
the Director-General of Lands considers appropriate; and
(b) request the Recorder to note the creation of that new interest on the relevant folio of the
Register for the land and any other limitation, exception, reservation, condition or restriction to
which the land is subject in accordance with the Crown Lands Act 1976 .
(7)  Where on the commencement of the Crown Lands (Shack Sites) Act 1997 the Crown is the
registered proprietor of any land, that land is subject to any limitation, exception, reservation, condition
or restriction that is noted on the relevant folio.
(8)  On application by the Director-General of Lands, the Recorder may amend any easement, covenant,
limitation, exception, reservation, condition or restriction noted on the folio.
(9)  A transfer of any land of which the Crown is the registered proprietor is, unless the parties otherwise
agree, to be subject to any limitation, exception, reservation, condition, restriction, covenant or easement
that is noted on the relevant folio under this section.
(10)  Where the Recorder brings land under this Act pursuant to an application made under
subsection (2) , the application is taken to be a registered dealing.
28.   How certain estates and interests dealt with when land brought under this Act
(1AA)  In this section,
instrument means any deed, judgment, will, letters of administration or other document or
writing affecting or intended to affect land in this State.
(1)  When –
(a) on the bringing of land under this Act, it appears to the Recorder that the land is subject to a
legal mortgage by conveyance of the fee simple;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
19 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) a legal mortgage by conveyance of the fee simple is to be recorded in the Register pursuant to
section 22 ; or
(c) in the case of land of the Crown for which a folio of the Register is created under section 27A
(2) , it appears to the Recorder that the land is subject to a legal mortgage –
the Recorder shall register the mortgage on the relevant folio of the Register notwithstanding that it is
not an instrument in the form of a memorandum of mortgage under this Act, and when so registered it
has effect for all purposes as if it were such an instrument registered under this Act at the time the land
was brought under this Act.
(2)  Where –
(a) on the bringing of land under this Act, it appears to the Recorder that an instrument registered
under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 or Part 2K.2 of the Corporations Act creates an estate
or interest in that land (other than the estate claimed by the person making application to bring
land under this Act or the person who is to be registered as proprietor) that could have been
created by an instrument registered under this Act if at the time of its creation the land were
under this Act; or
(b) the Recorder is required to record the estate or interest referred to in paragraph (a) on the
relevant folio of the Register pursuant to section 22  –
the Recorder may record that instrument as if it were the appropriate instrument under this Act to
create the estate or interest, notwithstanding that –
(c) it is not in the form of an appropriate instrument; and
(d) it discloses the existence of other estates or interests that may not otherwise be registered
under this Act.
(3)  Subsection (2) allows the recording of an equitable mortgage or charge as a legal mortgage or
encumbrance.
(4)  Where an instrument is recorded on a folio of the Register pursuant to this section or is referred to
on the folio –
(a) the Recorder shall –
(i) certify on the instrument that it is so recorded;
(ii) make a copy of the instrument, which the Recorder shall retain, and which shall for all
purposes be deemed to be the original instrument; and
(iii) return the instrument to the person from whom the Recorder received it, and that
instrument shall be produced to the Recorder whenever the duplicate instrument is
required by this Act to be produced to the Recorder;
(b) dealings with the estate or interest so recorded are subject to this Act; and
(c) the proprietor of the estate or interest so recorded has all the rights of a registered proprietor
of such an estate or interest instead of any rights of a like nature enjoyed by the proprietor before
that registration.
(5)  Where an instrument is registered under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 or Part 2K.2 of the
Corporations Act, the Recorder is not bound to require production of the instrument or to comply with
subsection (4) (a) (i) .
(6)  In registering instruments under this section the Recorder shall, in the absence of proof to the
contrary, preserve such priority as they appear to have by virtue of the Registration of Deeds Act 1935
and for that purpose may assume that all instruments registered under that Act have been executed or
taken in good faith by the purchasers.
(7)  A power of sale arising from an instrument registered pursuant to this section shall be exercised, and
the estate or interest sold shall be transferred, in accordance with this Act and not otherwise.
(8)  Foreclosure of a mortgage registered pursuant to this section shall be effected by an application
under section 85 and an order made and registered pursuant to section 86 , and not otherwise.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
20 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(9)  Where a person is aggrieved by a decision of the Recorder –
(a) to register or refrain from registering an instrument under subsection (1) or subsection (2) ; or
(b) on the priority of an instrument so registered –
section 144 applies as if the decision were a refusal as mentioned in subsection (1) (a) of that section.
(10)  Where –
(a) on the bringing of land under this Act, it appears to the Recorder that the land is subject to an
equitable interest incapable of registration under this Act; or
(b) the Recorder is required under section 22 to record on a qualified title an equitable interest
incapable of registration under this Act –
the Recorder shall record a caveat to protect the interest of the person entitled in equity and shall give
notice of the caveat to that person and to the registered proprietor.
(11)  A caveat recorded pursuant to subsection (10)  –
(a) may be withdrawn by the Recorder, upon proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the
equitable interest no longer exists, or by the person protected by the caveat; and
(b) is otherwise subject to the same provisions as if it were a caveat lodged by that person.
(12)  Where –
(a) on the bringing of land under this Act, it appears to the Recorder that a judgment registered
under the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 affects that land; or
(b) the Recorder is required under section 22 to record the interest of the judgment creditor under
such a judgment –
the Recorder shall record a caveat to protect the interest of the judgment creditor, and shall give notice of
the caveat to the judgment creditor or to the legal practitioner who registered the judgment, and to the
registered proprietor.
(13)  A caveat recorded pursuant to subsection (12)  –
(a) may be withdrawn by the Recorder upon proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the
judgment has been satisfied, or by the person to whom the money payable under the judgment is
payable or by the person’s legal practitioner for the person and on the person’s behalf;
(b) unless sooner withdrawn or lapsed, lapses at the expiration of 5 years after the date of the first
registration of the judgment, or the latest re-registration of the judgment before the land was
brought under this Act, whichever is the later date; and
(c) is otherwise subject to the same provisions as if it were a caveat lodged by a judgment
creditor.
(14)  On recording an estate or interest referred to in subsection (2) , (10) or (12) , it is sufficient
compliance with this section if the Recorder refers to an instrument registered under the Registration of
Deeds Act 1935 which records that estate or interest, whether it was created in that instrument or in
another instrument registered in the Registry of Deeds.
28A.   Restraining orders not affected when land brought under Act
If land that is brought under this Act is subject to a restraining order within the meaning of the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Act 1976 , the Recorder is to record particulars of the restraining order on the
relevant folio of the Register.
29.   Notice to be given in Registry of Deeds
When land is brought under this Act (otherwise than pursuant to Division 1 or section 27A ), the
Recorder shall give notice of that fact in the Registry of Deeds in the prescribed manner.
30.   Disposal of antecedent documents of title
(1)  Where land is brought under this Act or the repealed Act , the Recorder –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
21 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) shall return to the person from whom the Recorder received them documents relating to any
property other than the land included in the relevant folio of the Register; and
(b) may, in relation to any other documents –
(i) retain them in the office of the Recorder;
(ii) transfer them to the Tasmanian Library Board, to be dealt with as if they were State
records within the meaning of the Archives Act 1983 ; or
(iii) subject to subsection (2) , sell or destroy them.
(2)  The Recorder shall not destroy a document pursuant to subsection (1) unless –
(a) where the land was brought under this Act or the repealed Act with a title other than a
qualified title, a period of at least 12 years has expired since the land was brought under this Act
or the repealed Act ; or
(b) where the land was brought under this Act or the repealed Act with a qualified title, the title
has ceased to be qualified and a period of at least 12 years has expired since it ceased to be
qualified.
(3)  Instead of selling or destroying a document under the authority of subsection (1) , the Recorder may
deliver it to any person who satisfies the Recorder that the person intends to preserve the document for
historical purposes.
(3A)  If an application is made by a person who had an estate or interest in the land specified in a
document at the time that document was lodged or deposited with the Recorder, the Recorder shall, if the
Recorder considers that the document is of no value for the purpose of the Register, give possession of
the document to that person free of charge.
(4)  Before selling, returning or delivering a document pursuant to this section, the Recorder shall mark
the document as cancelled so far as it relates to land brought under this Act or the repealed Act .
(5)  A person is not entitled to the production of a document retained by the Recorder, or transferred to
the Tasmanian Library Board, pursuant to subsection (1) , except upon the order of the Recorder or of
the Supreme Court.
(6)  In this section, document means, in relation to land brought under this Act or the repealed Act , an
instrument constituting, or in any way affecting, the title to the land, being an instrument that is left with
or surrendered to the Recorder by the applicant or any other person, other than an instrument that is
registered pursuant to section 28 .
31.   Persons to produce deeds
(1)  Where, by any provision of this Part, a proprietor is required to produce to the Recorder instruments
constituting, or in any way affecting, the proprietor’s title, a mortgagee or other person who holds those
instruments shall, upon being requested to do so by the proprietor, at the cost of the proprietor, produce
those instruments to the Recorder.
(2)  The Supreme Court may, on the application of the Recorder or of a person who is required by any
provision of this Part to produce it to the Recorder, order any specified person who has in the person’s
possession or under the person’s control an instrument evidencing title to land to which that person
claims title, within such time as may be limited by the order, to produce and leave that instrument at the
office of the Recorder, upon such terms and subject to such conditions as to costs or otherwise as the
Court considers necessary.
(3)  Production of instruments to the Recorder under subsection (1) does not affect a lien which the
person producing the instruments may have, and an order made under subsection (2) may preserve a
lien.
(4)  A person producing instruments to the Recorder under subsection (1) may do so subject to the
condition that, upon the bringing under this Act of the land, or any part of the land, to which the
instruments relate, the Recorder must create for that land a folio of the Register.
(5)  An order made under subsection (2) may contain a similar condition to the condition referred to in
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
22 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
subsection (4) .
32.   Land may be described by verbal description if no survey available, &c.
(1)  Where, on the bringing of land under this Act pursuant to this Part (other than Division 1 ), there is
not available to the Recorder a survey such as the Recorder could require under section 162 , the land
may be described by a verbal description or by a plan prepared from information contained in a verbal
description.
(2)  Where, pursuant to subsection (1) , land is described by a verbal description or by a plan prepared
from information contained in a verbal description, or where, under section 143E (1) , the remainder of
any land included in a title is described by a plan prepared from information contained in a verbal
description –
(a) subject to subsection (2A) , an action is not to be brought against –
(i) the Recorder; or
(ii) the assurance fund; or
(iii) in the case of a plan prepared by a surveyor – that surveyor –
by reason or in respect of any difference between the area of land or the position or dimensions
of the boundaries so described and the actual area, position or dimensions as found by survey;
and
(b) a legal practitioner who acts for any party taking or proposing to take any estate or interest in
the land is not under any duty to check that that description agrees with the description in the
antecedent documents of title; and
(c) on such evidence of boundaries as the Recorder deems sufficient, the Recorder may alter the
description to accord with that evidence.
(2A)  Where, pursuant to subsection (1) , the Recorder describes land by –
(a) a verbal description; or
(b) a plan prepared from information contained in a verbal description –
subsection (2) (a) does not exempt the Recorder from any liability under section 153 as a result of any
omission, mistake or misfeasance of the Recorder or any of the Recorder's officers in respect of that
description.
(3)  The fact that land comprised in a folio of the Register is described by a verbal description or by a
plan prepared from information contained in a verbal description shall be conclusive evidence that at the
time the verbal description or plan was first inserted in that folio no survey such as the Recorder could
require under section 162 was available to the Recorder.
(4)  The Recorder may, at any time –
(a) add to a verbal description a plan prepared from information contained in that description; or
(b) replace a verbal description with a plan prepared from information contained in that
description or with a plan from actual survey; or
(c) replace a plan prepared from information contained in a verbal description with an amended
or corrected plan of the same kind or with a plan from actual survey.
(4A)  A plan prepared from –
(a) information contained in a verbal description; or
(b) a plan prepared from information contained in a verbal description –
is to be endorsed "sketch by way of illustration only".
(5)  A plan or sketch by way of illustration only shall not in any way govern, control, restrict, or enlarge
the verbal description from which it has been prepared.
(6)  In this section verbal description means a description –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
23 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) by metes and bounds; or
(b) in such form as may be prescribed.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
24 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART IV - The Register and Certificates of Title
33.   The Register, certificates of title and registration
(1)  Subject to this section, the Recorder shall keep or cause to be kept a register of title to land which is
subject to this Act.
(2)  Regulations may prescribe the manner in which the Register is to be kept.
(3)  Subject to any regulation under this section the Register may be kept wholly or partly –
(a) on paper, on microfilm, or in or on such other medium as may be approved by the Recorder;
or
(b) in such device for storing or processing information as may be approved by the Recorder.
(4)  The Register shall comprise –
(a) the folios of the Register;
(b) the dealings registered under this Act and any of the Acts specified in Schedule 2 ; and
(c) schemes under the Strata Titles Act 1998 –
but shall not include any other maps and plans or documents deposited with the Recorder.
(5)  Each folio of the Register shall –
(a) be the record of the title to one or more parcels of land, or to an estate in one or more parcels
of land being an estate of a kind referred to in subsection (6) ;
(b) be numbered or otherwise identified as prescribed;
(c) contain a record of such matters as the Recorder is, by or under this or any other Act, required
to record on the folio; and
(d) contain such other particulars as may be prescribed.
(6)  The Recorder may, if the Recorder deems it convenient to do so, create a folio of the Register for
any of the following:
(a) a leasehold estate created by a lease registered under this Act;
(b) a life estate;
(c) an estate in remainder or other future estate;
(d) an undivided share in land;
(e) any other estate or interest in land.
(7)  Land becomes subject to this Act when the Recorder creates a folio of the Register for it.
(8)  Except as may otherwise be prescribed, when the Recorder creates a folio of the Register, the
Recorder may in the prescribed manner prepare a certificate of title to the same land.
(9)  A certificate of title shall be in an approved form and contain the prescribed particulars.
(10)  On the lodgement of a dealing, the Recorder is to ensure it is marked with a distinctive number,
letter or code or marked in some other manner approved by the Recorder.
(11)  The Recorder shall register a dealing by making such recording or alteration on the folio of the
Register or registered dealing to be affected thereby as, in the Recorder’s opinion, may be necessary to
give effect to the dealing.
(12)  Where land is removed from a title, the Recorder shall create a new folio of the Register for that
land, and shall cancel the folio from which the land is removed, so far as it relates to that land.
(13)  The Recorder may at any time, if the Recorder thinks fit, rearrange parts of the Register by creating
a new folio containing the whole or part of land in one or more existing folios or in such other manner as
may appear to the Recorder to be convenient.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
25 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(14)  In exercising the Recorder’s powers under subsection (13) , the Recorder –
(a) shall not create a new folio so as to permit the subdivision of land contrary to the provisions
of Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 ; and
(b) in creating a new folio, shall distinguish the parcels comprised in the new folio which may
lawfully be separately alienated immediately before the proclaimed date.
(15)  Any parcels comprised in a new folio created pursuant to subsection (13) which may lawfully be
separately alienated immediately before the proclaimed date may, on and after that date, be separately
alienated.
(16)  Where the Recorder creates a new folio of the Register pursuant to subsection (13) , the Recorder
shall cancel the folio of the Register from which the land comprised in the new folio is taken, so far as it
relates to that land.
(17)  Where the Recorder creates a new folio of the Register pursuant to subsection (12) or subsection
(13) , the Recorder may call in any certificate of title or grant referring to the same land and cancel it to
the same extent as the Recorder has cancelled the corresponding folio of the Register.
(18)  The Recorder may, upon registering a dealing, or whenever the Recorder considers it convenient to
do so –
(a) create a new edition of a folio of the Register containing the subsisting recordings only;
(b) prepare a new edition of a certificate of title containing the subsisting recordings only,
whether or not the Recorder has created a new edition of the relevant folio pursuant to paragraph
(a) ; and
(c) destroy the superseded edition of a certificate of title –
but shall retain a record of the registration of dealings which have ceased to affect the land comprised in
that folio which record shall remain part of the Register.
(19)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
34.   Power of Recorder to make transparencies
(1)  The Recorder may cause to be made a transparency of any dealing, map, plan, or document that is in
the Recorder’s possession or custody or under the Recorder’s control and may, subject to the Archives
Act 1983 , keep that transparency in lieu of, or in addition to, the dealing, map, plan, or document of
which it is a transparency.
(2)  Where the Recorder, pursuant to subsection (1) , keeps a transparency in lieu of a dealing, map, plan,
or document, the Recorder may –
(a) deliver the dealing, map, plan, or document to any person who satisfies the Recorder that the
person intends to preserve it for historical purposes; or
(b) destroy the dealing, map, plan, or document.
(3)  In this section,
transparency, in relation to any dealing, map, plan or document, means –
(a) a developed negative or positive photograph of that dealing, map, plan or document
(in this definition referred to as an original photograph) made on a transparent base by
means of light reflected from, or transmitted through, the dealing, map, plan or document;
or
(b) a copy of an original photograph made by the use of photosensitive material on a
transparent base placed in surface contact with the original photograph; or
(c) any one of a series of copies of an original photograph, the first of the series being
made by the use of photosensitive material on a transparent base placed in surface contact
with a copy referred to in paragraph (b) , and each succeeding copy in the series being
made in the same manner from any preceding copy in the series.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
26 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
34A.   Power to sell, destroy or otherwise dispose of certain documents
(1)  The Recorder may, with the written permission of the State Archivist given in accordance with
section 20 (2) (b) of the Archives Act 1983 , sell, destroy or otherwise dispose of any document or any
class of document in the possession of the Recorder which the Recorder considers to be of no value for
the purposes of the Register.
(2)  Before selling or disposing of a document the Recorder shall mark it as no longer valid.
(3)  For the purposes of this Act the Recorder is the Head of Agency for the purpose of section 3 of the
Archives Act 1983 .
(4)  If an application is made by a person who had an estate or interest in the land specified in a
document at the time that document was lodged or deposited with the Recorder, the Recorder shall, if the
Recorder considers that the document is of no value for the purpose of the Register, give possession of
the document to that person free of charge.
(5)  In this section document includes an instrument, a dealing, map, plan and transparency made in
accordance with section 34 .
35.   Lost certificate of title, folio of the Register, or duplicate registered dealing
(1)  If the Recorder –
(a) receives proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that a certificate of title or duplicate grant has
been lost, mislaid or destroyed; and
(b) accepts an application for the issue of a new certificate of title under this subsection –
the Recorder may issue a new certificate of title.
(1A)  The Recorder may, before issuing a new certificate of title under subsection (1) , require the
applicant to give an advertisement, notice, or indemnity, to the satisfaction of the Recorder.
(1B)  If the Recorder issues a new certificate of title under subsection (1) , the Recorder must record on
the relevant folio of the Register that the Recorder has done so pursuant to this section.
(2)  Where a new certificate of title is issued under subsection (1) , the new certificate of title shall be
produced to the Recorder whenever production of the certificate of title or duplicate grant is required.
(3)  If a folio of the Register or registered dealing forming part of the Register is lost or destroyed, or so
obliterated as to become illegible, the Recorder may create a substituted folio or dealing from such
evidence as is available to the Recorder as to the contents of and entries upon the original, and where the
Recorder creates a substituted folio or dealing the Recorder shall record on it that it is a substituted folio
or dealing.
(4)  Where a substituted folio or dealing is created under subsection (3) , the substituted folio or dealing
shall be used for all purposes in place of the original folio or dealing.
(5)  The Recorder, on application for that purpose and proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that a
duplicate registered dealing has been lost or destroyed, may, subject to such advertisement, notice, or
indemnity as the Recorder requires, issue a substituted duplicate registered dealing in place of the lost
duplicate, and where the Recorder issues a substituted duplicate registered dealing the Recorder shall
record on the original dealing that the substituted duplicate has been issued.
(6)  Where a substituted duplicate registered dealing is issued under subsection (5) , the substituted
duplicate shall be produced to the Recorder whenever production of the duplicate registered dealing is
required.
36.   Searches of public records
(1)  The following records are public records:
(a) the Register;
(b) dealings in the office of the Recorder awaiting registration, or re-execution, completion, or
correction to make them registrable and instruments and documents lodged, deposited or filed in
support of a dealing or instrument;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
27 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) caveats and priority notices;
(d) maps, plans and surveys deposited with the Recorder under this or any other Act whether or
not they are capable of being withdrawn or rejected;
(e) any index of unregistered dealings kept in the office of the Recorder.
(2)  Any information in a public record shall be available at the prescribed times, in the prescribed
manner, and upon payment of the prescribed fee (if any).
37.   Copies of public records
(1)  The Recorder shall, on application and payment of the prescribed fee, furnish a person with a
certified copy of any public record in the Recorder’s custody.
(2)  A copy for the purposes of this section may, in the Recorder's discretion, be –
(a) in writing;
(b) made by such photocopying, facsimile or electronic transmission process as the Recorder
determines; or
(c) made partly in accordance with paragraph (a) and partly in accordance with paragraph (b) .
(3)  In this section –
certified copy in relation to a public record, means a copy of that public record that –
(a) is certified by the Recorder or some officer acting on the Recorder's behalf to be a
copy of the public record; or
(b) in the case of a copy created by a facsimile or electronic transmission process – has
recorded upon it by that process an indication that the transmission creating the copy was
initiated in an office of the Recorder and a record of the time and date of the transmission;
machine copy, in relation to a public record, means a copy of the record made by –
(a) a machine in which, or a process by which, a latent image of the contents of the
document is produced from surface contact with the document or by the use of
photosensitive material other than transparent photographic film; or
(b) the electrostatic process known as Xerography or any similar process;
photocopying process, in relation to a copy of a public record, means the process of making a
photographic copy or machine copy of the public record;
photographic copy, in relation to a public record, means a print made from a transparency of the
public record;
transparency, in relation to a public record, means transparency as defined in section 34(3) .
(4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
38.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
28 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART V - The Effect of Registration
39.   Folio of the Register conclusive evidence of title, &c.
(1)  A folio of the Register is evidence of the particulars recorded in the folio.
(2)  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a folio of the Register is conclusive evidence that –
(a) the person named in the folio as registered proprietor of or as taking an estate or interest in the
land described in the folio is entitled to that land for that estate or interest; and
(b) that land has been duly brought under this Act.
40.   Estate of registered proprietor indefeasible
(1)  For the purposes of this section indefeasible, in relation to the title of a registered proprietor of land,
means subject only to such estates and interests as are recorded on the folio of the Register or registered
dealing evidencing title to the land.
(2)  Subject to subsections (3) and (4) , the title of a registered proprietor of land is indefeasible.
(3)  The title of a registered proprietor of land is not indefeasible –
(a) in the case of fraud, in which case the person defrauded has, except as otherwise provided in
sections 41 and 42 , all rights and remedies that the person would have had if the land were not
registered land;
(b) where 2 or more folios of the Register subsist for conflicting estates in respect of the same
land, in which case the title which was first brought under this Act or the repealed Act defeats the
titles subsequently brought under this Act or the repealed Act ;
(c) so far as regards the omission or misdescription of any reservations, exceptions, conditions,
and powers contained in the Crown grant of the land, or of any right to the use and flow of water
in a river, stream, watercourse, lake, pond, or marsh, or of any public right of way;
(d) so far as regards the interest of a tenant under –
(i) a periodic tenancy;
(ii) a lease taking effect in possession for a term not exceeding 3 years (whether or not the
lessee is given power to extend the term) at the best rent that can be reasonably obtained
without taking a fine; and
(iii) a lease capable of taking effect in equity only, except as against a bona fide purchaser
for value without notice of the lease who has lodged a transfer for registration; and
(iv) a residential tenancy agreement to which the Residential Tenancy Act 1997 applies;
(e) so far as regards –
(i) an easement arising by implication or under a statute which would have given rise to a
legal interest if the servient land had not been registered land; or
(ia) an easement created by deed but unintentionally omitted from the folio of the
Register for the servient land when that servient land was brought under this Act or the
repealed Act; or
(ib) an easement that has been created under this Act but unintentionally omitted from the
folio of the Register for the servient land; or
(ii) an equitable easement, except as against a bona fide purchaser for value without
notice of the easement who has lodged a transfer for registration;
(f) so far as regards any portion of land that may be erroneously included in the folio of the
Register or registered dealing evidencing the title of that registered proprietor by a wrong
description of parcels or boundaries;
(g) so far as regards any money charged on land under any Act; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
29 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(h) subject to section 138W , so far as regards rights acquired, or in the course of being acquired,
under a statute of limitations; and
(i) so far as regards land which under the Land Acquisition Act 1993 has vested in an acquiring
authority, within the meaning of that Act, and in respect of which that authority has not been
registered as proprietor.
(3A)  The application of subsection (3)(e)(ia) extends to any land that was brought under this Act or the
repealed Act before the commencement of the Land Titles Amendment (General Law Easements and
Records) Act 1997 .
(4)  If the estate of a registered proprietor is a leasehold estate, the estate of the registered proprietor is
subject also to the provisions of the lease and of this Act affecting leases, lessors, and lessees, and
subleases, sublessors, and sublessees.
(5)  In every case, other than those mentioned in subsections (2) , (3) , and (4) , the title of a registered
proprietor of land prevails, notwithstanding –
(a) the existence in any other person of any estate or interest, whether derived by grant from the
Crown or otherwise, which, but for this Act, might be held to be paramount, or to have priority;
and
(b) any want of notice or insufficient notice of any application, or any error, omission, or
informality in any application or proceedings under this Act.
(6)  In this section, interest means –
(a) any interest, mortgage, encumbrance, charge, reservation, or right in respect of land;
(b) any covenant, the burden of which runs with freehold land; or
(c) any claim or demand in respect of land –
whether at law or in equity.
41.   Purchaser from registered proprietor not to be affected by notice
(1)  Subject to section 40 (3) (d) (iii) and to section 40 (3) (e) (ii) , except in the case of fraud, a person
contracting or dealing with, or taking, or proposing to take a transfer from, the registered proprietor of
any registered estate or interest shall not be required to inquire or ascertain the circumstances in or the
consideration for which the registered proprietor or any previous registered proprietor of the estate or
interest in question is or was registered, or to see to the application of the purchase-money, or of any part
of that money, or shall not be affected by notice direct or constructive of any trust or unregistered
interest.
(2)  The knowledge that any trust or unregistered interest is in existence shall not of itself be imputed as
fraud.
42.   Purchasers and mortgagees protected
Nothing in this Act shall be so interpreted as to leave subject to action for recovery of damages as
provided in section 152 , or to action of ejectment as provided in section 149 , or to deprivation of the
estate or interest in respect to which the purchaser or mortgagee is registered as proprietor, any purchaser
or mortgagee in good faith for valuable consideration of registered land on the plea that the purchaser’s
or mortgagee’s vendor or mortgagor may have been registered as proprietor through fraud or error, or
under any void or voidable instrument, or may have derived from or through a person registered as
proprietor through fraud or error, or under any void or voidable instrument, whether that fraud or error
consists in wrong description of the boundaries or of the parcels of any land or otherwise.
43.   Validity of registration in name of deceased person
The creation of a folio of the Register, or registration of a grant or a dealing, in a case where the person
named in the folio as registered proprietor or the person taking an estate or interest under the grant or
dealing died before the date of creation of the folio or registration of the grant or dealing, is as valid and
effectual, and the estate and interest of that registered proprietor or person devolves in like manner, as if
the creation or registration had been effected before the death of that registered proprietor or person.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
30 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
44.   Persons jointly registered to be joint tenants
Two or more persons who are named in a dealing as transferees or proprietors of an estate or interest
shall, in the absence of words of severance, be entitled as joint tenants, and every such dealing, when
registered, takes effect accordingly.
45.   In suit for specific performance, folio of the Register conclusive evidence of title, &c.
In any action for specific performance brought by a registered proprietor of registered land against a
person who not having notice of any fraud affecting the title of the vendor may have contracted to
purchase that land, the folio of the Register certifying the title of the registered proprietor is conclusive
evidence that the registered proprietor has a good and valid title to the land, and for the estate or interest
mentioned or described in the folio.
46.   Folio of the Register void in certain cases
Any folio of the Register –
(a) created upon the first bringing of land under this Act or of the repealed Act other than a folio
created upon the registration of a grant or transfer from the Crown under section 10 ; or
(b) which names an applicant under section 138W(4) as proprietor pursuant to a vesting order
made under section 138X ; or
(c) which names an applicant under section 138D as proprietor pursuant to that section –
and every folio or new edition of a folio created in respect of the same land, or any part of the land,
which names as proprietor of the land any person claiming or deriving title under or through the
applicant proprietor, shall be void as against the title of any person adversely in actual occupation of, and
rightfully entitled to, that land, or any part of that land, at the time when that land was so brought under
this Act or the repealed Act , or the applicant was so registered as proprietor, and continuing in that
occupation at the time of any subsequent folio or new edition of a folio being created in respect of the
land.
47.   Certificate, recording, &c., procured by fraud void as between all parties to fraud
If any person –
(a) fraudulently procures, assists in fraudulently procuring, or is privy to the fraudulent
procurement of any certificate of title or recording in the Register or of any cancellation or
alteration in any recording in the Register, or in any instrument or form issued by the Recorder;
(b) fraudulently uses, assists in fraudulently using, or is privy to the fraudulent use of, any form
purporting to be issued or sanctioned by the Recorder; or
(c) knowingly misleads or deceives any person authorized by this Act to demand explanation or
information in respect of any land or the title to any land which is the subject of an application to
bring it under this Act, or in respect of which any dealing or transmission is proposed to be
registered or recorded –
any certificate of title, recording, cancellation, or alteration so procured or made by fraud is void as
between all parties or privies to that fraud.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
31 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART VI - Estates and Interests in Land and Registration of Dealings
Division 1 - General provisions
48.   Dealings to be attested; order of registration; priority of dealings
(1)  Every dealing lodged for registration shall –
(a) except as may otherwise be prescribed, be attested by a witness who is not a party to the
dealing;
(b) be lodged singly, in duplicate, or otherwise as prescribed; and
(c) comply with the prescribed requirements.
(1A)  A dealing or instrument is taken to be lodged with the Recorder when a record is made in a device
for storing or processing information approved under section 33 (3) (b) or 143A (3) (b) .
(2)  Where two or more dealings affecting the same land are lodged for registration at the same time by
the same person and are awaiting registration, the Recorder shall register the dealings in the order in
which the Recorder is requested in writing to do so by the person lodging the dealings.
(3)  Where two or more dealings, lodged by different persons, or lodged by the same person at different
times, affect the same land, the Recorder shall, subject to subsection (4) , register them in the order
which will give effect to the intentions of the parties as expressed in, or apparent to the Recorder from,
the dealings.
(4)  Where the intentions of the parties referred to in subsection (3) appear to the Recorder to conflict,
the order of registration shall be determined in the order in which a record is made in a device for storing
or processing information approved under section 33 (3) (b) or 143A (3) (b) .
(5)  When registered, dealings affecting the same estate or interest shall, notwithstanding any express,
implied, or constructive notice, be entitled in priority the one over the other according to the order in
which they are registered and not according to the date of each dealing itself.
(6)  The Recorder, upon registering a dealing, shall deliver any duplicate of the dealing to the person
appearing to the Recorder pursuant to section 54 to be entitled to the duplicate.
(7)  When registered, a dealing shall have the effect of a deed duly executed by the parties who signed it.
48A.   Lodgement of dealings and instruments
A dealing or instrument that may be lodged with the Recorder under this or another Act may be so
lodged –
(a) by delivery of the original dealing or instrument; or
(b) if authorised by the Recorder, by the transmission, by electronic communication, of a copy of
the original dealing or instrument; or
(c) by the lodgement of an electronic communication that –
(i) is set out in a format approved by the Recorder; and
(ii) allows the Recorder to produce the appropriate dealing or instrument in the approved
form, the form approved by the Recorder or other form required by, or allowed under, this
or another Act; or
(d) in any other manner approved by the Recorder.
48B.   Authority for lodgement by electronic process
(1)  The Recorder may make an agreement with a person authorising the person to prepare, lodge or
prepare and lodge any dealing or instrument that may be lodged with the Recorder under this or another
Act otherwise than by production of the original dealing or instrument.
(2)  An agreement must provide that the procedures to be followed –
(a) are comparable with the normal procedures adopted by the Recorder and will not adversely
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
32 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
affect the register of title referred to in section 33 or the register of plans; and
(b) will ensure the accurate transmission by electronic communication of the dealing or
instrument.
(3)  The Recorder may require a person seeking to lodge a dealing or instrument by electronic means to
produce documentary evidence that the person is authorised to do so.
48C.   Lodgement of supporting documents
The application of sections 48A and 48B extend to the preparation and lodgement by electronic means of
any document required by the Recorder in support of the dealing or instrument.
49.   Instruments not effectual until registered
(1)  An instrument shall not be effectual to pass any estate or interest in registered land, or to render that
land liable as security for the payment of money; but upon the registration of any instrument in
accordance with this Act the estate or interest specified in the instrument shall pass, or the land shall
become liable as security, in the manner and subject to the covenants, conditions, and contingencies set
forth and specified in the instrument or by this Act declared to be implied in instruments of a like nature.
(2)  A person on whom the right to be registered as the proprietor of registered land has –
(a) devolved by reason of the death or bankruptcy of the registered proprietor or otherwise by
operation of law; or
(b) been conferred by a dealing –
may, subject to such conditions (if any) as may be prescribed, execute and lodge for registration
instruments dealing with the land before the person is registered as proprietor.
(3)  An instrument lodged for registration pursuant to subsection (2) is, when registered, as valid and
effectual as if the person executing it had been registered as proprietor at the date of execution of the
instrument.
(4)  Where two or more dealings which affect the same land are awaiting registration the Recorder may,
if he thinks fit, register those dealings by making a single recording in the Register, referring in the
recording to the lodgement numbers of those dealings or otherwise identifying them.
(5)  For the purposes of Part XI , a person expressed in a dealing registered pursuant to subsection (4) as
taking an estate or interest in registered land shall be deemed to have become registered as proprietor of
that estate or interest according to the tenor of the dealing.
50.   Dealings not to be registered except in accordance with this Act
(1)  Subject to this section, the Recorder shall not register any dealing except as provided in this Act and
unless the dealing is in accordance with this Act.
(2)  Where a dealing that is not in accordance with this Act is lodged for registration, the Recorder
shall –
(a) require it to be amended as provided in subsection (4) ;
(b) amend it as provided in subsection (6) ; or
(c) refuse to register it.
(3)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Recorder may, in the Recorder’s discretion,
register a dealing notwithstanding any error in or omission from the dealing and where a dealing is so
registered the error or omission does not invalidate its registration.
(4)  If, in the opinion of the Recorder, a dealing which is lodged with the Recorder for registration is
erroneous, incomplete, or defective in any particular, the Recorder may by notice in writing require the
person by whom the dealing was lodged, or the person’s agent, to re-execute, complete, or correct the
dealing or procure the re-execution, completion, or correction of the dealing in such manner as may be
specified in the notice.
(5)  If a person to whom a notice under subsection (4) is forwarded fails, within the prescribed period, to
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
33 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
re-execute, complete, or correct the dealing, or to procure the re-execution, completion, or correction of
the dealing in accordance with the notice, the Recorder shall, after such delay (if any) as the Recorder
thinks proper, deal with the dealing as if the Recorder had not required any amendment.
(6)  The Recorder may, of the Recorder’s own motion, correct a patent error in a dealing lodged for
registration by notation, and after an error is so corrected the dealing has the same validity and effect as
if the error so corrected had not been made.
(7)  The Recorder may refuse to register a dealing which in the Recorder’s opinion cannot be registered
because another dealing is required to be registered before it, and that other dealing has not been lodged,
or is not in order, for registration.
(8)  Where the Recorder refuses to register a dealing, the Recorder shall notify the person by whom the
dealing was lodged or the person’s agent of the Recorder’s refusal, and may retain one-half of the fees
paid on the lodging of the dealing.
(9)  Where the Recorder refuses to register a dealing, the Recorder may also refuse to register a dealing
which appears to the Recorder to be intended to be registered subsequent to the first-mentioned dealing,
or which, in the Recorder’s opinion, could only be registered after the registration of the first-mentioned
dealing.
(10)  All fees retained by the Recorder in accordance with subsection (8) shall be paid into the Public
Account.
(11)  The Recorder is not to register a dealing that purports to be executed under or in pursuance of a
power of attorney unless the Recorder is satisfied that –
(a) the power of attorney is registered under the Powers of Attorney Act 2000 ; or
(b) in the case of a foreign power of attorney within the meaning of the Powers of Attorney Act
2000 , the foreign power of attorney is registered under, or taken to be registered in Tasmania for
the purposes of, that Act.
(11A)  If satisfied as specified in subsection (11) , the Recorder is entitled to assume that the execution
of the dealing is within the powers conferred on the attorney by the relevant power of attorney or foreign
power of attorney.
(12)  If the Recorder is of the opinion that by reason of amendments made or to be made in a dealing the
dealing will be inconvenient for subsequent use, the Recorder may require the person by whom it was
lodged, or the person’s agent, to lodge within 30 days from the date of the requisition a fresh dealing to
the same effect as the original dealing has, or would have, after amendment.
(13)  A dealing lodged pursuant to subsection (12) has effect as if it had been lodged in place of the
original dealing, and if validly made in fact is not invalid merely because it could not have been validly
made at the date of lodgement of the original dealing.
(14)  A requirement or refusal made by the Recorder under this section in respect of a dealing shall be
notified in writing to the person by whom the dealing was lodged or his agent.
(15)  Where a legal practitioner is acting as or for the agent referred to in subsection (14) the notification
shall be sent to that legal practitioner.
(16)  For the purposes of this section –
registration includes all methods of recording in the office of the Recorder;
the prescribed period means –
(a) in the case of a caveat, or a writ referred to in section 61 , a period of 21 days; and
(b) in any other case, a period of 90 days –
after the date of the notice under subsection (4) .
51.   Recording of dealing on certificate of title, &c.
(1)  The Recorder must not register a dealing unless –
(a) the certificate of title, if any; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
34 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) the grant, if any; or
(c) the duplicate registered dealing, if any –
to be affected by the dealing has been lodged with the Recorder for the purpose of registering that
dealing.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to the following dealings:
(a) the recording of a writ (referred to in section 61 ) and the registration of a transfer pursuant to
a writ under section 61 ;
(b) discharges of mortgages pursuant to section 90 , and discharges of mortgages or
encumbrances pursuant to sections 91 and 148 ;
(ba) in respect of the registration of a transfer on the exercise of a power of sale by a mortgagee
or encumbrancee under section 78 , the memorandum of mortgage or the memorandum of
encumbrance;
(c) satisfactions of encumbrances pursuant to section 94 ;
(d) orders under section 110 after notice has been given under subsection (4) of that section;
(e) action taken by the Recorder under section 138A , section 138B , section 138D or
section 138X ;
(f) any other dealing where the Recorder considers that the production of the certificate of title,
grant or registered dealing, if any, is not required.
(3)  Subsection (1) does not apply –
(a) where the Recorder dispenses, pursuant to section 160 (5) , with production of –
(i) a certificate of title, if any; or
(ii) a grant, if any; or
(iii) a duplicate registered dealing, if any; or
(b) where by the provisions of this or any other Act the Recorder is, expressly or by necessary
implication, required or authorized to make the recording without production of –
(i) a certificate of title, if any; or
(ii) a grant, if any; or
(iii) a duplicate registered dealing, if any.
(4)  On registering a dealing, the Recorder shall note on the dealing the fact and date of its registration,
and that notation shall be conclusive evidence that the dealing was duly registered on that date.
(5)  Where under subsection (1) a certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered dealing is required to
be lodged with the Recorder before the Recorder registers a dealing, the Recorder may, except as may
otherwise be prescribed –
(a) make the same recording on –
(i) the relevant certificate of title, if any; or
(ii) the grant, if any; or
(iii) the duplicate registered dealing, if any –
as the Recorder has made on the folio of the Register or registered dealing to give effect to the
dealing; or
(b) issue a certificate of title, or a new edition of the certificate of title, in accordance with the
folio of the Register.
(6)  Where the Recorder has registered a dealing without the certificate of title, grant or duplicate
registered dealing being produced to the Recorder, then, when the certificate of title, grant or duplicate
registered dealing is next produced to the Recorder for any purpose, the Recorder may act as provided in
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
35 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
subsection (5) .
(7)  Nothing in this section affects any power of the Recorder to compel production to the Recorder of
the certificate of title, if any, the grant, if any, or the duplicate registered dealing, if any.
(8)  A failure by the Recorder to comply with any of the requirements of subsections (1) , (5) , and (6)
does not invalidate the registration of a dealing.
(9)  Nothing in this section requires the Recorder to record –
(a) on a certificate of title, if any, or a grant, if any  –
(i) a caveat;
(ii) a priority notice; or
(iii) a dealing of a prescribed kind; or
(b) on a registered dealing or duplicate registered dealing, if any, any dealing –
which is recorded on the folio of the Register constituting the title to the land affected by the caveat,
priority notice, or dealing.
52.   Priority notices
(1)  Any of the following persons may lodge with the Recorder a priority notice in accordance with
subsection (2) :
(a) a registered proprietor;
(b) a person entitled to deal with registered land;
(c) a person who has contracted in good faith and for value to deal with a person referred to in
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or is entitled to execute and lodge dealings as and in the cases
prescribed under section 49 (2) ;
(d) the legal practitioner for a person referred to in paragraph (a) , paragraph (b) , or paragraph
(c) ; and
(e) a person authorized in writing to do so by any of the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) , (b)
, (c) , and (d) ; and
(f) the Director of Public Prosecutions where a restraining order has been made under section 18
of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act 1976 .
(2)  A priority notice –
(a) shall be in an approved form;
(b) except as provided by subsection (5A) , limits a period, which –
(i) takes effect immediately at the time at which, on the day on which, the priority notice
is lodged with the Recorder; and
(ii) extends from that time on that day, for the remainder of that day and for the prescribed
period beginning immediately after that day; and
(iii) ends at midnight on the day that is the last day of the prescribed period –
during which priority shall be reserved for lodgement of the dealing specified in the notice;
(c) shall, when lodged, be dealt with by the Recorder in the prescribed manner; and
(d) operates to prevent registration or recording of any dealing lodged with, or served on, the
Recorder after the lodgement of the priority notice, except as is otherwise provided in
subsections (3) , (5) , (5A) and (7) .
(3)  If a dealing specified in a priority notice is lodged with the Recorder within the period limited in the
priority notice or, if that period expires on a day on which the office of the Recorder is closed, on the
next day on which the office is open, that dealing shall, subject to subsections (4) , (5) , (5A) and (6) be
registered, notwithstanding the lodgement with the Recorder of any other dealing after the lodgement of
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
36 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the priority notice.
(4)  Subsection (3) does not authorize the registration of a dealing executed by a person entitled to be
registered as the proprietor of registered land otherwise than as and in the cases prescribed under section
49 (2) .
(5)  Except as provided by subsection (5A) , a priority notice ceases to have effect –
(a) if no dealing specified in the priority notice is lodged with the Recorder within the period
limited in the priority notice, at the expiration of that period; or
(b) if a dealing specified in the priority notice is lodged within the period limited in the priority
notice, when all dealings –
(i) which are specified in the priority notice; and
(ii) which have been lodged with the Recorder within the period limited in the priority
notice –
have been registered, have been withdrawn from registration, or have been refused registration.
(5A)  A priority notice lodged by the Director of Public Prosecutions under subsection (1) (f)  –
(a) reserves priority, for the period commencing after the day on which the notice is lodged with
the Recorder and ending on the day on which the notice ceases to have effect, for lodgement of
the dealing specified in the notice; and
(b) ceases to have effect when –
(i) the restraining order to which the notice relates ceases to have effect under section 23
of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act 1976 ; or
(ii) the notice is withdrawn; or
(iii) the notice is otherwise removed under this section; or
(iv) if the dealing specified in the notice is lodged – the dealing is registered, withdrawn
from registration or refused registration.
(5B)  If a judge extends the period during which a restraining order to which a priority notice lodged
under subsection (1) (f) relates is in force the Director may apply to the Recorder, on a form approved by
the Recorder, to record particulars of the extension on the priority notice.
(5C)  The Recorder may, if satisfied that an application under subsection (5B) is in order, record
particulars of the extension on the relevant priority notice.
(6)  After a priority notice ceases to have effect pursuant to subsection (5) or (5A) , dealings lodged with,
or served on, the Recorder while the priority notice was effective in respect of the land to which the
priority notice relates shall be dealt with in the same manner, shall have the same priority as between
themselves, and shall be as effectual, as if the priority notice had not been lodged.
(7)  A priority notice does not prevent the registration or recording of a dealing lodged by the Crown or a
public or local authority –
(a) pursuant to a power –
(i) to resume or take land;
(ii) to restrict the use or alienation of land;
(iii) to erect works on land; or
(iv) to give notice of its intention to do any one or more of the things referred to in
subparagraphs (i) , (ii) , and (iii) ; or
(b) in prescribed circumstances or subject to prescribed conditions.
(8)  Where a dealing is lodged for registration but its registration is prevented by a priority notice, the
Recorder shall, as soon as practicable, notify the person who has lodged the dealing that it is so affected.
(9)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a person by whom or on whose behalf a priority
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
37 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
notice has been lodged may, notwithstanding the notice, consent to the registration of a specified dealing,
and the dealing to the registration of which the person has consented may, if the consent is lodged with
it, be registered as if the priority notice had not been lodged.
(10)  A person who has lodged a priority notice may withdraw it by lodging with the Recorder a notice
of withdrawal in an approved form.
(11)  The Recorder shall not be concerned to be satisfied that a person lodging a priority notice is a
person entitled or authorized to do so pursuant to subsection (1) .
(12)  A person who lodges a priority notice with the Recorder and who is not entitled or authorized to do
so under this section is liable to any person who may have sustained damage as a result of the priority
notice being lodged for such compensation as a judge, on a summons in chambers, deems just.
(13)  The cost of a summons referred to in subsection (12) and all proceedings in connection with the
summons shall be in the discretion of the judge, and execution may issue for the amount of
compensation, if any, and of costs ordered by the judge to be paid in the same manner as if the amount of
compensation and costs had been recovered by a judgment in an action in the Supreme Court.
(14)  A person having an interest in land to which a priority notice relates may take out a summons
requiring the person who lodged the notice to show cause to a judge in chambers why the priority notice
should not be removed.
(15)  On the return of a summons under subsection (14) , the judge may refer the matter to the Supreme
Court, and the judge or the Court may make such an order as to the judge or it seems just, and may
provide for the costs of the proceedings.
(16)  The Recorder shall, upon being served with an order made under subsection (15) , give effect to the
order so far as it relates to matters under the Recorder’s control.
52A.   Attorney-General to give notice of forfeiture orders
Where, pursuant to section 29 of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act 1976 , the State is recorded
under this Act as the registered proprietor of land, the Attorney-General is, within 30 days of the
registration, to give notice of the registration to each person who appears to the Attorney-General, from
the Register, to have an interest in that land.
53.   Dealing may be registered prior to grant from the Crown
(1)  Where a dealing is lodged with the Recorder for registration, accompanied by a receipt of, or a
receipt purporting to be signed on behalf of the Treasurer, the Director-General of Lands, the Surveyor-
General, or the managing director of Tasmania Development and Resources, acknowledging payment of
all money required to be paid for a grant in fee of land affected by the dealing from the Crown to the
person executing the dealing, the Recorder shall, subject to subsection (4) , record upon the receipt
particulars of the dealing.
(2)  Where particulars of a dealing are recorded pursuant to subsection (1)  –
(a) the dealing shall be held to be duly registered under this Act; and
(b) the person named in the recording shall be held to be duly registered as proprietor of the
estate or interest specified in the recording.
(3)  On registering a dealing pursuant to subsection (1) , the Recorder shall retain the receipt and dealing
in the office of the Recorder until a transfer granting the land by the Crown is registered; and the
Recorder shall then record on the folio of the Register created pursuant to that transfer every dealing
recorded upon the receipt.
(4)  The Recorder is not bound to record under subsection (1) any dealing relating to part of the land to
which the receipt relates.
54.   Delivery of certificate of title or duplicate registered dealing
(1)  The Recorder –
(a) where the Recorder considers it proper to do so, may deliver, to the person by whom it was
lodged, a certificate of title, or duplicate registered dealing, that is in the Recorder’s custody,
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
38 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
unless that person has given written instructions to the Recorder to deliver the certificate of title
or duplicate registered dealing to some other person; and
(b) shall not, where written instructions have been given as mentioned in paragraph (a) , deliver
the certificate of title, or duplicate registered dealing, that is in the Recorder’s custody, otherwise
than in accordance with those instructions or by order of the Supreme Court; and
(c) where the Recorder is unable to determine to whom a certificate of title, or duplicate
registered dealing, in the Recorder’s custody, should be delivered, may –
(i) deliver it to the person whom the Recorder considers to be best entitled to the
certificate of title or duplicate registered dealing; or
(ii) retain it in the office of the Recorder.
(2)  A person who lodges any dealing or other document with the Recorder is taken to have authority
from all persons claiming under, or having an interest in, the dealing or document –
(a) to lodge it with the Recorder;
(b) to collect it from the Recorder for amendment or to withdraw it from registration, and in
either case to give a receipt for it; and
(c) to receive communications and notices in respect of it.
55.   Effect of reference to plan
(1)  Where land is described in a folio of the Register by reference to a plan filed, lodged or deposited
with the Recorder under Division 3 of Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 1993 , the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 or any other law, a transfer, mortgage,
encumbrance or lease of that land or any other dealing, instrument or plan is taken to import a statement
that the land is similarly described by reference to that plan.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , a document is taken to be a plan if it incorporates by reference
any information contained in another plan or document filed, deposited or lodged with the Recorder
under this Act.
(3)  The application of this section extends to a plan prepared by the Recorder.
56.   General covenants implied in dealings
In every dealing charging, creating, or transferring an estate or interest in registered land, there shall be
implied a covenant by the party charging, creating, or transferring the estate or interest that the party will
do such acts and execute such dealings as may be necessary to give effect to all covenants, conditions,
and purposes expressly set forth in the dealing, or by this Act declared to be implied against that party in
dealings of a like nature.
57.   Implied covenants may be modified or negatived
(1)  Every covenant and power implied in any dealing by virtue of this Act may be negatived or
modified by express declaration in the dealing or endorsed on the dealing.
(2)  In a declaration in an action for an alleged breach of a covenant referred to in subsection (1) , the
covenant alleged to be broken may be set forth; and it may be alleged that the party against whom the
action is brought did so covenant precisely in the same manner as if that covenant had been expressed in
words in that dealing.
(3)  Every implied covenant referred to in this section has the same force and effect and is enforced in
the same manner as if it had been set out at length in the dealing.
(4)  Where any dealing is executed by more parties than one, such covenants as are by this Act declared
to be implied in dealings of the like nature shall be construed to bind the parties jointly and severally.
Division 2 - Transfers
58.   Transfer
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
39 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  A registered proprietor may transfer the registered proprietor’s estate or interest in land by a
memorandum of transfer in an approved form.
(2)  On a transfer referred to in subsection (1) being registered, the estate or interest of the transferor, as
set forth in the transfer, with all rights, powers, privileges, requirements and liabilities belonging or
appertaining to that estate or interest, shall pass to the transferee.
(3)  A registered proprietor may surrender land to the Crown by the form of transfer mentioned in
subsection (1) , and when registered the transfer shall be deemed to have been duly enrolled of record.
59.   Transferee of land subject to mortgage or encumbrance to indemnify transferor
In every memorandum of transfer of an estate or interest in registered land which is subject to a
mortgage or encumbrance, there shall be implied a covenant by the transferee –
(a) with the transferor and the mortgagee or encumbrancee, that the transferee will pay the
interest, annuity, and principal sum secured by that mortgage or encumbrance in the manner and
at the time specified in the memorandum of mortgage and encumbrance; and
(b) with the transferor, that the transferee will indemnify and keep harmless the transferor from
and against all moneys secured by the memorandum of mortgage or encumbrance and from and
against all liability in respect of any of the covenants contained in the memorandum, or by this
Act implied, on the part of the transferor.
60.   Transfers of mortgages, encumbrances, and leases
(1)  On the registration of a transfer of a registered mortgage, a registered lease, or a registered
encumbrance, the transferee shall become subject to and liable for the same requirements and liabilities
to which the transferee would have been subject and liable if named in that instrument originally as
mortgagee, encumbrancee, or lessee.
(2)  By virtue of every transfer referred to in subsection (1)  –
(a) the right to sue upon a memorandum of mortgage or other dealing, and to recover any debt,
sum of money, annuity, or damages under the memorandum of mortgage or other dealing
(notwithstanding the same may be deemed or held to constitute a chose in action); and
(b) all interest in the debt, sum of money, annuity, or damages referred to in paragraph (a)  –
shall be transferred so as to vest the same at law as well as in equity in the transferee.
(3)  Nothing contained in this section shall prevent a court from giving effect to any trusts affecting the
debt, sum of money, annuity, or damages referred to in subsection (2) , where the transferee holds the
same as a trustee for any other person.
61.   Sale under writ
(1)  In this section, writ means –
(a) a writ of fieri facias issued out of the High Court of Australia or out of the Supreme Court;
(b) a writ enforcing a judgment or order issued under the Magistrates Court (Civil Division) Act
1992 ; or
(c) a direction, decree, or order of the High Court of Australia, the Supreme Court, the Family
Court of Australia, or any court of competent jurisdiction directing or authorizing the sale of any
estate or interest in land.
(2)  No execution of any writ shall bind, charge, or affect any estate or interest in registered land except
within the period of 90 days after it has been recorded in accordance with subsection (3) .
(3)  The Recorder, pursuant to an application in an approved form which –
(a) is accompanied by a copy of a writ;
(b) identifies, by reference to a folio of the Register or to a registered dealing, the land sought to
be affected by that writ; and
(c) incorporates, or is supported by, a statutory declaration that, to the Recorder's satisfaction,
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
40 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
identifies the judgment debtor named in the writ with the registered proprietor of the land
comprised in that folio or registered dealing –
shall record the writ on that folio or registered dealing.
(4)  Subject to this section, where a writ recorded pursuant to subsection (3) is executed by sale of all or
part of the land to which the recording relates, and a transfer pursuant to the sale is lodged for
registration within 90 days after that recording, the Recorder shall register the transfer, notwithstanding
that a dealing with the land by the registered proprietor has already been lodged for registration, and for
that purpose may call in the relevant certificate of title, if any, or duplicate registered dealing, if any, or
use the certificate of title or duplicate registered dealing if it is in the Recorder’s possession.
(5)  After a writ has been recorded pursuant to subsection (3) , the Recorder shall not register on that
folio or registered dealing a dealing executed by the registered proprietor of the folio or registered
dealing until –
(a) a period of 90 days has elapsed since the writ was so recorded; or
(b) satisfaction of the writ has been registered.
(6)  After a writ is issued but before it is recorded in accordance with subsection (3) , a person dealing
with the registered proprietor or with a mortgagee or encumbrancee exercising a power of sale may
lodge a transfer for registration and, if that transfer is registered, the person is entitled to take the
person’s interest in priority even if the person had actual or constructive notice of the issue of the writ.
(7)  The Recorder, on such evidence as the Recorder considers sufficient, may record on the relevant
folio of the Register or registered dealing the satisfaction of any writ recorded under this section, and
upon the satisfaction of any writ being recorded that writ shall cease to bind, charge, or affect the estate
or interest sought to be affected by the writ.
(8)  On the expiration of 90 days after a writ has been recorded in accordance with subsection (3) , and if
no transfer pursuant to a sale under the writ has within that period been lodged for registration –
(a) the writ ceases to bind, charge, or affect the estate or interest sought to be affected by the writ;
and
(b) the Recorder may cancel the recording of the writ.
(9)  For the purposes of calculating time under this section, a writ which is recorded pursuant to
subsection (3) shall be deemed to have been recorded on the day on which the application to record it
was lodged with the Recorder.
62.   Dealings with lands of the Crown under Act
(1)  A transfer under the hand of the Minister administering the Crown Lands Act 1976 of any land of
which Her Majesty is registered proprietor, witnessed by the Director-General of Lands or an officer of
the department of the Director-General of Lands, and duly registered, has the effect, for all purposes, of
letters patent issued under the seal of the State and duly enrolled of record.
(2)  The Recorder shall not record on a folio of the Register a notice of statutory duties or restrictions
affecting lands of which Her Majesty is registered proprietor, and no reference in the Register to a
notification in the Gazette shall be deemed to be notice of any subsisting statutory duty or restriction.
(3)  Except where the contrary is expressly enacted, no statutory duty or restriction referred to in
subsection (2) has, as against any registered estate or interest, any greater effect than if it were
enforceable only in equity and not at law.
Division 3 - Severance of joint tenancy
63.   Severance of joint tenancy
(1)  A joint tenant of registered land may sever the joint tenant’s joint tenancy by a declaration of
severance in an approved form and registered under this Act.
(2)  On registering a declaration of severance in accordance with subsection (1) , the Recorder shall
notify every other joint tenant of the land by notice in writing.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
41 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3)  The mode of severance prescribed by this section is in addition to, and not in substitution for, any
other mode available before the proclaimed date to a joint tenant of registered land.
(4)  On the severance of a joint tenancy in relation to land –
(a) if there are only 2 registered proprietors of the land – each registered proprietor becomes a
tenant in common with the other registered proprietor of the land; or
(b) if there are more than 2 registered proprietors of the land –
(i) the registered proprietor who has severed the joint tenancy becomes a tenant in
common with the other registered proprietors of the land who have not severed the joint
tenancy; and
(ii) the joint tenancy of the registered proprietors, other than the registered proprietor who
has severed the registered proprietor’s tenancy, is not severed.
(5)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
Division 4 - Leases
64.   Leases
(1)  The registered proprietor of land may lease it for any term exceeding 3 years by a memorandum of
lease in an approved form.
(2)  A lease for a term of 3 years or less is not registrable under this Act.
(3)  A lease of mortgaged or encumbered land shall not be valid and binding against the mortgagee or
encumbrancee unless the mortgagee or encumbrancee has consented in writing to the lease prior to the
registration of the lease.
65.   Surrender of lease
(1)  The lessee may surrender a registered lease by a memorandum of surrender in an approved form
accepted by the lessor.
(2)  When a memorandum of surrender of lease has been registered under this Act, the estate or interest
of the lessee in that land ceases.
(3)  A lease subject to mortgage or encumbrance shall not be surrendered in accordance with this section
without the consent of the mortgagee or encumbrancee.
66.   Covenants implied in every lease against lessee
In every memorandum of lease the following covenants shall be implied against the lessee, unless
otherwise provided in that memorandum:
(a) the lessee will pay the rent reserved by the lease, at the times mentioned in the lease, and all
rates and taxes which may be payable in respect of the demised property during the continuance
of the lease;
(b) the lessee will keep and yield up the demised property in good and tenantable repair, damage
by fire, storm, tempest, act of Her Majesty's enemies, and reasonable wear and tear excepted.
67.   Powers in lessor
In every memorandum of lease the following powers shall be implied in the lessor, unless otherwise
provided in that memorandum:
(a) the lessor may, or the lessor’s agents may, at all reasonable times, enter upon the demised
property, and view the state of repair of the demised property, and may serve upon the lessee, or
leave at the lessee’s last or usual place of abode, or upon the demised property, a notice in writing
of any defect, requiring the lessee, within a reasonable time to be specified in the notice, to repair
the demised property;
(b) where the rent or any part of the rent is in arrears for 90 days, or where default is made in the
fulfilment of any covenant, whether expressed or implied in that lease, on the part of the lessee,
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
42 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and is continued for 90 days, or where the repairs required by the notice referred to in paragraph
(a) have not been completed within the time specified in the notice, the lessor may re-enter upon
and take possession of the demised property.
68.   Recovery of possession and determination of lease
(1)  The Recorder, on proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction –
(a) of lawful re-entry and recovery of possession by a lessor; or
(b) that the lessee has abandoned the demised property, and that the lessor has re-entered and
occupied the property personally or by tenants undisturbed by the lessee –
shall record the re-entry as prescribed.
(2)  Where a re-entry is recorded pursuant to subsection (1) the lease shall determine without prejudice
to any action or cause of action previously commenced or accrued in respect of any breach or non-
observance of any covenant expressed or implied in the lease.
69.   Provisions of Act as to leases to apply, with necessary modifications, to subleases
(1)  The provisions of this Act affecting leases, lessors, and lessees apply to subleases, sublessors, and
sublessees, with such modifications and exceptions as the difference between a lease and sublease
require.
(2)  If a lease is determined by forfeiture of a superior lease or otherwise by operation of law, the
assurance fund shall not be liable for compensation for any loss, damage, or deprivation occasioned by
that determination.
(3)  In addition to the covenants specified by this Act to be implied in leases, there shall be implied in
every sublease under this Act a covenant that the sublessor will during the term granted by the sublease
pay the rent reserved by and perform and observe the covenants and agreements contained in the
sublessor's lease and on the sublessor’s part to be paid, performed, and observed.
70.   Extension or variation of lease
(1)  The term of a registered lease may be extended by a memorandum of extension in an approved form
signed by the lessor and lessee and lodged for registration before the expiry of that term.
(2)  Subject to this section, on the registration of a memorandum of extension –
(a) the memorandum shall have the same effect as if it were a memorandum of lease for the
extended term subject to the same covenants, conditions, and restrictions, with the necessary
modifications, as are contained or implied in the lease;
(b) the estate of the lessee under the extended term of the lease shall be subject to all mortgages,
encumbrances, and interests to which the lease is subject at the time of registration of the
memorandum of extension; and
(c) all references in any Act or in any agreement, deed, instrument, notice, or other document to
the lease or to the estate of the lessee under the lease shall, unless inconsistent with the context of
this section, be deemed to be references to the lease as varied by the memorandum of extension
or to the estate of the lessee under the extended term of the lease, as the case may be.
(3)  The covenants, conditions, and restrictions contained or implied in a lease may be expressly varied,
negatived, or added to by a memorandum of extension.
(4)  Notwithstanding that the term of a lease is not extended, the covenants, conditions, and restrictions
contained or implied in a registered lease may be expressly varied, negatived, or added to by a
memorandum in an approved form signed by the lessor and the lessee and lodged for registration before
the expiry of the term of the lease.
(5)  On the registration of a memorandum of extension of a lease in respect of which a separate folio of
the Register has been created, that folio shall have full validity and effect during the extended term.
(6)  If the land affected by a lease is at the time of registration of a memorandum of extension or
variation subject to a mortgage or an encumbrance, the memorandum shall not be binding on the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
43 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
mortgagee or encumbrancee unless the mortgagee, or encumbrancee, respectively, has consented to the
memorandum of extension or variation in writing on the memorandum.
71.   Folio of the Register for a leasehold estate
(1)  When a folio of the Register has been created for a leasehold estate, the Recorder –
(a) is to record the creation of that folio on the folio of the Register evidencing the lessor's title;
and
(b) is to register on that leasehold folio all dealings with the lease.
(c) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(2)  On the determination of a lease, otherwise than by effluxion of time, the Recorder shall cancel the
folio of the Register, or the edition of the folio of the Register, for the leasehold estate, and on the expiry
of the term of the lease the folio, or the edition of the folio, of the Register for the leasehold estate shall
be deemed to be so cancelled.
Division 5 - Mortgages and encumbrances
72.   Creation of mortgage or encumbrance
The registered proprietor of a freehold or leasehold estate in registered land –
(a) may mortgage it by a memorandum of mortgage in an approved form; and
(b) may charge it with the payment of an annuity, rent-charge, or other sum of money by a
memorandum of encumbrance in an approved form.
73.   Mortgage or encumbrance not to operate as transfer
A mortgage or encumbrance when registered has effect as security, and is an interest in land, but does
not operate as a transfer of the land mortgaged or charged.
74.   Covenants implied in every memorandum of mortgage
In every memorandum of mortgage there is implied against the mortgagor a covenant that the mortgagor
will repair and keep in repair all buildings or other improvements erected and made upon the land; and
that the mortgagee may at all convenient times, until the mortgage is redeemed, be at liberty, with or
without surveyors or others, to enter into and upon the land, to view and inspect the state of repair of the
buildings or improvements.
75.   Submortgages
(1)  A mortgagee may create a submortgage in favour of a person by executing a transfer of mortgage by
way of security in an approved form.
(2)  Section 60 applies to a transfer of mortgage under this section, but nothing in that section prevents a
court from giving effect to a covenant contained in a transfer of mortgage that the transferee will execute
a registrable transfer of the mortgage to the transferor by way of discharge of the security.
76.   Postponement of mortgages and encumbrances
(1)  The priority between themselves of the mortgages or encumbrances appearing by the Register to
affect any land may from time to time be varied by an instrument in an approved form registered under
this Act.
(2)  An instrument referred to in subsection (1) that postpones the priority of a mortgage or encumbrance
must be executed by the registered proprietor of the mortgage or encumbrance that is postponed.
77.   Procedure in case of default
(1)  Where default is made in the payment of any money secured by any registered mortgage or
encumbrance, or in the observance of any covenant expressed or by this Act declared to be implied in
any registered mortgage or encumbrance, and that default is continued for 30 days, or for such other
period as may be expressly limited for that purpose in the mortgage or encumbrance, the mortgagee or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
44 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
encumbrancee may –
(a) give to the mortgagor or encumbrancer written notice in accordance with subsection (2) ; or
(b) leave that notice on the mortgaged or encumbered land or at the usual or last known place of
abode in the State of the mortgagor or encumbrancer or other person claiming to be then entitled
to the land.
(2)  A notice referred to in subsection (1) shall –
(a) require the mortgagor or encumbrancer to pay the money then due or owing under the
mortgage or encumbrance or to observe the covenants expressed or implied in the mortgage or
encumbrance; and
(b) state that sale will be effected if default in payment of the money referred to in paragraph (a) ,
or in the observance of covenants referred to in that paragraph, is continued.
(3)  A purchaser under a sale referred to in subsection (2) (b) shall not be bound to inquire whether
default has been made or continued as provided in this section or whether the notice referred to in
subsection (1) has been given, or otherwise as to the propriety or regularity of the sale of the land.
(4)  Where the trustee of the mortgagor or encumbrancer under the law relating to bankruptcy has
disclaimed, or has notified the Recorder that the trustee does not intend to claim, any land subject to
mortgage or encumbrance, the mortgagee or encumbrancee, in lieu of giving notice to the mortgagor or
encumbrancer as provided by this section, may publish in a newspaper a similar notice to all persons
concerned.
78.   Power to sell and appropriation of proceeds
(1)  After default in payment or in observance of covenants continuing for the further period of 30 days
from the date of service or publication of the notice pursuant to section 77 , or for such other period as
may be limited for that purpose in the memorandum of mortgage or memorandum of encumbrance, the
mortgagee or encumbrancee may, in good faith and having regard to the interests of the mortgagor,
encumbrancer, and other persons –
(a) sell or concur with any other person in selling the mortgaged or encumbered land or any part
of that land, altogether or in lots, in such manner and subject to such terms and conditions as the
mortgagee, or encumbrancee, respectively, thinks fit; and
(b) for the purpose of making a sale of the land or any part of the land at the best price, do
anything that the mortgagor or encumbrancer could do in relation to the land.
(2)  Without limiting the generality of subsection (1) (b) , the mortgagee or encumbrancee may –
(a) subdivide, change the use of, or otherwise develop the land;
(b) carry out works upon the land;
(c) set aside part of the land for purposes other than sale, in the course of subdivision;
(d) execute schedules of easements for the purposes of Part 3 of the Local Government (Building
and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 , as if the mortgagee, or encumbrancee, respectively,
were the owner; and
(e) grant and reserve easements and profits à prendre, and enter into restrictive covenants; and
(f) enter into an agreement under Part 5 of the Land Use Planning and Approvals Act 1993 .
(3)  Anything made, done, or executed by the mortgagee or encumbrancee in pursuance of this section
shall be as valid and effectual as if made, done, or executed by the mortgagor or encumbrancer.
(4)  The receipt in writing of the mortgagee or encumbrancee shall be a sufficient discharge to the
purchaser of the land or any portion of the land for so much of the purchaser’s purchase-money as may
be expressed to be received by the receipt.
(5)  A purchaser referred to in subsection (4) shall not be answerable for the loss, misapplication, or non-
application, or be obliged to see to the application, of the purchase-money paid by the purchaser, and
shall not be concerned to inquire whether any default or notice has been made or given.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
45 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6)  A memorandum of transfer by a registered mortgagee or encumbrancee expressed to be in exercise
of the power of sale conferred by this Act may be accepted by the Recorder as sufficient evidence that
the power of sale has been duly exercised.
(7)  The purchase-money received by a mortgagee who has exercised the power of sale conferred by this
section, after discharge of prior mortgages and encumbrances to which the sale is not made subject (if
any), shall be applied –
(a) firstly, in payment of all costs, charges, and expenses properly incurred, incidental to or for
the purpose of the sale, or any attempted sale, or otherwise consequent on the default;
(b) secondly, in payment of the money which is due and owing on the mortgage;
(c) thirdly, in payment of subsequent mortgages and encumbrances (if any) in the order of their
priority;
(d) fourthly, in satisfaction of the claims of all persons who have lodged caveats subsisting when
the power of sale was exercised, in accordance with their respective rights and priorities; and
(e) fifthly, in payment of the residue (if any) to the mortgagor.
(8)  The purchase-money received by an encumbrancee who has exercised the power of sale conferred
by this section, after discharge of prior mortgages and encumbrances to which the sale is not made
subject (if any), shall be applied –
(a) firstly, in payment of all costs, charges, and expenses properly incurred, incidental to or for
the purpose of the sale, or any attempted sale, or otherwise consequent on the default;
(b) secondly, in accordance with any express provision in the memorandum of encumbrance for
disposing of the money (either by setting aside the proceeds of sale or part of the proceeds of sale
on investment to meet future periodical payments, or by payment to the encumbrancee out of the
proceeds of a sum being the estimated capital value of the encumbrancee's interest, or otherwise);
and in the absence of any provision in the memorandum of encumbrance for disposing of the
money, in payment of the money which is due and owing on the encumbrance at the date of the
sale;
(c) thirdly, in payment of subsequent mortgages and encumbrances (if any) in the order of their
priority;
(d) fourthly, in satisfaction of the claims of all persons who have lodged caveats subsisting when
the power of sale was exercised in accordance with their respective rights and priorities; and
(e) fifthly, in payment of the residue (if any) to the encumbrancer.
(9)  Where by this section a mortgagee or encumbrancee is required to account to a subsequent
encumbrancee for money arising on a sale, the money shall be paid or applied in accordance with the
express provision (if any) in the memorandum of encumbrance for disposing of the money, and, in the
absence of express provision, in discharge of the money due to the subsequent encumbrancee at the date
of the sale.
(10)  Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (9) , where by this section a mortgagee or
encumbrancee is required to account to a subsequent mortgagee or encumbrancee for money arising on a
sale –
(a) the mortgagee, or encumbrancee, respectively, may pay to the subsequent mortgagee or
encumbrancee such sum as the subsequent mortgagee or encumbrancee claims in writing is
owing upon the security of the subsequent mortgage or encumbrance; and
(b) the subsequent mortgagee or encumbrancee, and not the mortgagee or encumbrancee making
the payment, is accountable to the mortgagor or encumbrancer for any amount in fact overpaid.
(11)  Where a mortgagee or encumbrancee cannot reasonably ascertain how the mortgagee or
encumbrancee is to satisfy claims of persons who have lodged caveats, the mortgagee or encumbrancee,
respectively, may pay all money available to satisfy those claims into the Supreme Court, and the receipt
or certificate of the proper officer of the Supreme Court is a sufficient discharge to the mortgagee or
encumbrancee for the money so paid in, and that money shall be dealt with in accordance with the orders
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
46 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of the Supreme Court.
79.   Power of mortgagee to sell or lease mortgaged land and other land together
(1)  In the exercise by the mortgagee of a power of sale or lease contained or implied in a mortgage, the
mortgaged land may be sold or leased together with any other land of whatever nature or tenure and
whether registered land or not that is the subject of the mortgage or of any other mortgage from the
mortgagor to the mortgagee by one sale or lease at one price or rent; and the mortgagee shall fairly and
equitably apportion all costs, expenses, purchase-money, and rent between the lands so sold or leased.
(2)  A failure by the mortgagee to make the apportionment required by this section does not affect the
purchaser or lessee or the title to any land in the mortgagee’s hands.
80.   Notice or lapse of time may be dispensed with
(1)  Any notice or lapse of time prescribed by section 77 or section 78 may, by agreement expressed in
the mortgage or encumbrance or otherwise in writing, be dispensed with, and in that case section 78
operates as if no notice or lapse of time were required.
(2)  This section applies to mortgages and encumbrances made before or after the proclaimed date.
81.   Effect of registration of sale by mortgagee or encumbrancee
(1)  On the registration of a memorandum of transfer executed by a registered mortgagee or
encumbrancee for the purpose of a sale pursuant to section 78 , the estate or interest of the mortgagor or
encumbrancer described in that memorandum of transfer to be conveyed shall pass to and vest in the
purchaser, freed and discharged from all liability on account of –
(a) the mortgage or encumbrance;
(b) any mortgage or encumbrance registered subsequent to the mortgage or encumbrance; or
(c) any caveat that if not removed would forbid the registration of any dealing by the purchaser.
(2)  Where a memorandum of transfer to which subsection (1) relates is registered –
(a) the title of the purchaser is not impeachable on the ground that –
(i) a case had not arisen to authorize the sale;
(ii) due notice to pay the money due or owing to the mortgagee or encumbrancee as
required by this Act was not given by the mortgagee or encumbrancee to the mortgagor or
encumbrancer; or
(iii) the power of sale was otherwise improperly or irregularly exercised;
(b) a person who suffers any loss or damage by reason of the registration of the memorandum of
transfer is entitled to recover damages, by action in a court of competent jurisdiction, from the
person who exercised the power of sale; and
(c) the purchaser shall, for the purposes of section 41 , be deemed to have contracted, or dealt
with, or taken a transfer from, the registered proprietor of the land.
82.   Remedies of mortgagee or encumbrancee upon default
The mortgagee or encumbrancee, upon default in the payment of any money secured by the mortgage or
encumbrance, may –
(a) enter into possession of the mortgaged or encumbered land by receiving the rents and profits
of that land;
(b) distrain upon the occupier or tenant of the mortgaged or encumbered land under the power to
distrain contained in section 83 ; or
(c) pursue the remedy provided by section 146 to obtain possession of the mortgaged or
encumbered land –
and a registered mortgagee shall be entitled to foreclose the right of the mortgagor to redeem the
mortgaged land as provided by sections 85 and 86 .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
47 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
83.   Mortgagee or encumbrancee may distrain for arrears of money secured under mortgage or
encumbrance
When the payment of any money secured by a mortgage or encumbrance has been in arrears for 21 days,
and 7 days have elapsed since demand was made for payment, the mortgagee or encumbrancee may
distrain on the goods and chattels on the mortgaged or encumbered land, and Part V of the Landlord and
Tenant Act 1935 applies as if the mortgagee or encumbrancee were a landlord and the mortgagor or
encumbrancer were the mortagee’s or encumbrancee’s tenant.
84.   Mortgagee or encumbrancee of leasehold entering into possession of rent and profits becomes liable
to lessor
Any mortgagee or encumbrancee of leasehold land under this Act, or any person claiming that land as a
purchaser or otherwise from or under the mortgagee or encumbrancee, after entering into possession of
that land or the rents and profits of that land, shall, during that possession and to the extent of any rents
and profits which may be received by the mortgagee, encumbrancee or person, respectively, become and
be subject and liable to the lessor of that land to the same extent as the lessee or tenant was subject and
liable to the lessor prior to the mortgagee, encumbrancee, or other person entering into possession of that
land, or the rents and profits of that land.
85.   Mortgagee may apply to Recorder for order for foreclosure
(1)  When default has been made for 180 days in the payment of any money secured by a registered
memorandum of mortgage, the mortgagee may make application in writing to the Recorder for an order
for foreclosure.
(2)  An application under subsection (1) shall state that –
(a) default has been made for 180 days in the payment of the money secured by a registered
memorandum of mortgage;
(b) the land, estate, or interest mortgaged has been offered for sale at a lawfully conducted public
auction;
(c) prior to the attempted sale by public auction, notice of intention to sell had been given to the
mortgagor pursuant to section 77 , unless the notice of intention has been dispensed with in
accordance with section 80 ;
(d) the amount of the highest bid at the sale was not sufficient to satisfy the money secured by the
mortgage, together with the expenses occasioned by the sale; and
(e) notice in writing of the intention of the mortgagee to make an application for an order for
foreclosure has been served on the mortgagor in the manner provided in the mortgage for service
of notices, or posted on the mortgaged land, or left at the usual or last known place of abode of
the mortgagor.
(3)  An application under subsection (1) shall be supported by a certificate of the person conducting the
public auction at which the land was put up for sale, and such other proof of matters material to the
application as the Recorder may require.
(4)  The statements made in an application under subsection (1) shall be verified by the statutory
declaration of the applicant.
86.   Order for foreclosure
(1)  If the Recorder does not reject an application under section 85 , the Recorder shall direct notice to be
published once in a newspaper, published in this State, circulating in the locality in which the mortgaged
land is situated offering the mortgaged land for sale, and shall appoint a time in the notice, not less than
30 days from the date of the advertisement in that newspaper, on or after which the Recorder may make
and register an order for foreclosure in favour of the applicant unless in the interval a sufficient amount
has been realized by the sale of land to satisfy the money due, and all expenses occasioned by the sale
and proceedings.
(2)  An order for foreclosure under the hand of the Recorder shall when registered have the effect of
vesting in the mortgagee all the estate and interest of the mortgagor in the land mentioned in that order,
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
48 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
free from all right and equity of redemption on the part of the mortgagor or of any person claiming
through or under the mortgagor.
87.   First mortgagee or encumbrancee to produce title for registration of subsequent dealing
When a dealing subsequent to a first mortgage or encumbrance is made, the first mortgagee or
encumbrancee, if the first mortgagee or encumbrancee, respectively, holds the certificate of title, if any,
or the duplicate registered dealing, if any, evidencing title to the land affected, shall, upon being
requested to do so by the person entitled to the benefit of the subsequent dealing but at the cost of that
person, produce the certificate of title, if any, or duplicate registered dealing, if any, to the Recorder so
that the subsequent dealing may be registered.
88.   Variation of terms of mortgage and encumbrance
(1)  A registered mortgage or encumbrance may be varied in any of the following ways:
(a) the amount secured by the mortgage or encumbrance may be increased or reduced;
(b) the rate of interest may be increased or reduced;
(c) the term or currency of the mortgage or encumbrance may be shortened, extended, or
renewed;
(d) the covenants, conditions, and powers contained or implied in the mortgage or encumbrance
may be varied, negatived, or added to –
by an instrument in an approved form, executed by the respective parties or their successors in title, and
registered under this Act.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) , it is not necessary for –
(a) a mortgagor or encumbrancer to execute an instrument which reduces; or
(b) a mortgagee or encumbrancee to execute an instrument which increases –
the mortgage debt, or the money payable under an encumbrance, or the rate of interest payable under a
mortgage or encumbrance, without otherwise varying the mortgage or encumbrance.
(3)  An instrument under this section varying a mortgage or encumbrance affecting land subject to a
subsequent mortgage or encumbrance is not binding on a subsequent mortgagee or encumbrancee unless
the subsequent morgagee or encumbrancee has consented to the variation in writing on that instrument,
but that consent renders the instrument binding on the subsequent mortgagee or encumbrancee so
consenting, and is binding on all persons who may subsequently derive from the subsequent mortgagee
or encumbrancee any interest in the mortgaged or encumbered property.
89.   Discharge of mortgage and encumbrance
(1)  Whenever a registered mortgage or encumbrance is intended to be discharged wholly or partially, the
registered mortgagee or encumbrancee shall execute a discharge in an approved form.
(2)  On the registration of a discharge of mortgage or encumbrance, the mortgaged or encumbered estate
or interest shall, to the extent specified in the discharge, cease to be charged with any money secured by
the mortgage or encumbrance.
90.   Recorder may facilitate discharge of mortgage in certain cases
(1)  The Recorder, on proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that all money secured by a registered
mortgage has been paid, may record on the relevant folio of the Register or registered dealing that the
mortgage is discharged, and upon that recording the mortgaged estate or interest ceases to be charged
with any money secured by the mortgage.
(2)  In any of the cases mentioned in subsection (3) , the Recorder may, if the Recorder considers that
there is sufficient cause for so doing –
(a) on proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction of the amount of the debt owing under a registered
mortgage, direct that amount to be paid to the Treasurer; and
(b) on production to the Recorder of the receipt of the Treasurer for that amount, proceed as if the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
49 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Recorder had been satisfied, under subsection (1) , that all money secured by that mortgage had
been paid.
(3)  The cases in which the Recorder may act under subsection (2) are –
(a) when –
(i) a person who is entitled to receive payment of money secured by a mortgage –
(A) is out of the State;
(B) cannot be found; or
(C) is unknown; or
(ii) it is uncertain who is entitled to receive payment of money secured by a mortgage;
and
(b) when the mortgagee or one of several mortgagees is dead, and there is no person within the
State presently entitled to discharge the mortgage.
(4)  Between the person who is liable to pay money by reason of a mortgage affected by a recording
made pursuant to this section and the person entitled to be paid it, any amount in fact outstanding at the
time of the making of the recording shall be deemed to be a specialty debt created by the instrument
under which, but for the operation of this section, it would be payable.
(5)  The Recorder may, if the Recorder thinks fit, hold an inquiry in order to be satisfied as to any fact or
matter of which the Recorder may require proof for the purposes of this section, and may make such
order as to the costs of any person attending such an inquiry as the Recorder thinks fit.
(6)  An order as to costs made under subsection (5) may be registered in the Supreme Court, and, on
being so registered, is enforceable as if it were a judgment of that Court.
91.   Application for order declaring mortgage, &c., discharged
(1)  Subject to this section and section 92 , where on the application of the registered proprietor of any
land which appears by the Register to be subject to a mortgage or encumbrance, the Recorder is satisfied
that by virtue of the operation of a statute of limitation no action may be brought to recover the money
secured by the mortgage or encumbrance, the Recorder may make an order declaring that the mortgage
or encumbrance is discharged.
(2)  An application under this section shall –
(a) be in an approved form;
(b) be verified by the statutory declarations of the applicant and of such other persons as the
Recorder may require;
(c) be supported by proof of such matters material to the application as the Recorder may require;
and
(d) state the full name and last known address of the mortgagee or encumbrancee.
(3)  The Recorder may reject the application, or may make such requisitions as to any matter relating to
the application as the Recorder thinks fit, and, at any time before granting the application, despite any
direction previously given by the Recorder as to the application, reject the application if the applicant
fails to comply to the Recorder’s satisfaction with any requisition made by the Recorder within such
time as the Recorder considers to be reasonable.
(4)  If the Recorder does not reject the application, the Recorder shall direct that notice of the
application, in such form as the Recorder directs, be advertised in such newspaper as the Recorder
directs and be given to every person appearing by the Register to have any interest in the mortgage or
encumbrance, and to any person named by the Recorder.
(5)  A notice under subsection (4) shall –
(a) specify the folio of the Register or registered dealing affected by the application, and the
registered number of the mortgage or encumbrance; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
50 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) be dated.
92.   Caveat by persons claiming under mortgage, &c.
(1)  Any person claiming any interest in a mortgage or encumbrance in respect of which an application
under section 91 is made may, before the granting of the application, lodge a caveat in an approved form
with the Recorder forbidding the granting of the application.
(2)  A caveat under this section shall in all respects be subject to the same provisions, and have the same
effect with respect to the application against which it is lodged, as a caveat against an application to
bring land under this Act.
93.   Registration of order
(1)  If the Recorder makes an order under section 91 , the Recorder shall on making the order make such
recordings on the folio of the Register or registered dealing evidencing title to the mortgaged or
encumbered estate or interest as are necessary to give effect to the order, and may call in the
corresponding certificate of title, if any, grant, if any, or duplicate registered dealing, if any, and the
duplicate mortgage or encumbrance, if any.
(2)  On the making of such recordings under subsection (1) as are necessary to give effect to an order
under section 91 , the mortgaged or encumbered estate or interest shall cease to be charged with any
money secured by the mortgage or encumbrance.
94.   Recording of satisfaction of encumbrance
(1)  On proof of the death of an annuitant, or the occurrence of the event or circumstance upon which, in
accordance with the provisions of any registered memorandum of encumbrance, the money secured by
the memorandum of encumbrance shall cease to be payable, and on proof that all arrears have been paid,
the Recorder shall record on the relevant folio of the Register or registered dealing that the memorandum
of encumbrance is discharged, and may call in the corresponding certificate of title, if any, grant, if any,
or duplicate registered dealing, if any, and the duplicate encumbrance, if any.
(2)  On a recording being made pursuant to subsection (1) , the encumbered estate or interest shall cease
to be charged with any money secured by the encumbrance.
Division 6 - Transmissions
95.   Interpretation
In this Division –
Commonwealth Act means the Bankruptcy Act 1966 of the Commonwealth and includes that
Act as amended from time to time or any Act passed in substitution for that Act;
Official Receiver has the same meaning as in the Commonwealth Act .
96.   Transmission on bankruptcy
(1)  The Official Receiver, a trustee, or any other person claiming to be entitled to registered land by
virtue of the operation of the Commonwealth Act , or of anything done under that Act, may apply to the
Recorder in writing to be registered as proprietor of that land.
(2)  On being satisfied that an applicant under subsection (1) is entitled to be registered as proprietor of
the land to which the application relates, the Recorder may record on the relevant folio of the Register or
registered dealing that the applicant is so registered.
97.   Disclaimer or lease under Commonwealth Act
(1)  This section applies to a registered lease where –
(a) the lessee is a bankrupt within the meaning of the Commonwealth Act ;
(b) the trustee, as defined by the Commonwealth Act , has disclaimed the lease pursuant to that
Act;
(c) a court having jurisdiction in bankruptcy under that Act has not made an order pursuant to
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
51 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
section 133 (9) of the Commonwealth Act vesting the lease in some person other than the lessee;
and
(d) no application has been made pursuant to that subsection to such a court, or any application
so made has been dismissed.
(2)  A lessor under a lease to which this section applies may, by notice in an approved form, served in an
approved manner on a person, other than the bankrupt lessee, who is registered as proprietor of an
interest in the lease and any person who, by a caveat, claims to be entitled to an estate in the lease,
require that person to state within a time specified for the purpose in the notice whether the person on
whom the notice is so served claims the interest of the lessee or claims an interest derived from the lease.
(3)  Subject to subsection (4) , the Recorder may record on the relevant folio of the Register or registered
dealing that a lease to which this section applies has been surrendered by operation of law where the
lessor applies for such a recording to be made, and –
(a) there is no person, other than the bankrupt lessee, registered as proprietor of an estate or
interest in the lease and the lease is not affected by any caveat; or
(b) the lessor lodges with the lessor’s application evidence that notice has been served as
provided in subsection (2) upon every person, other than the bankrupt lessee, who appears from
the Register to have or to claim an interest in the lease and that a person on whom notice has
been so served has not, within the time specified in the notice, claimed the interest of the lessee
or (otherwise than as registered proprietor of a sublease) an interest derived from the lease, and
any caveat affecting the lease has lapsed or has been withdrawn.
(4)  Before recording a surrender of lease under subsection (3) , the Recorder shall record any sublease
claimed pursuant to subsection (2) on the folio of the Register or on the registered dealing, as the case
may be, evidencing the title of the lessor, and that folio or registered dealing shall, upon the sublease
being so recorded, evidence the title to the reversion expectant on the sublease.
(5)  Where a lease to which this section applies is subject to a registered mortgage, the mortgagee may,
by notice in an approved form served in an approved manner on any person, other than the bankrupt
lessee, who is registered as proprietor of an interest in the lease and any person who, by a caveat, claims
to be entitled to an interest in the lease, require that person to state within a time specified for the
purpose in the notice whether the person on whom the notice is so served claims the interest of the lessee
or claims an interest derived from the lease.
(6)  Subject to subsection (7) , the Recorder may record on the relevant folio of the Register or registered
dealing that a mortgage of a lease to which this section applies has been foreclosed where the mortgagee
applies for such a recording to be made (the application being in respect of the whole of the land subject
to the mortgage) and –
(a) there is no person, other than the mortgagee and the bankrupt lessee, registered as proprietor
of an estate or interest in the lease and the lease is not affected by any caveat; or
(b) the mortgagee lodges with the mortgagee’s application evidence that notice has been served
as provided in subsection (5) upon every person, other than the mortgagee and the bankrupt
lessee, who appears from the Register to have or to claim an interest in the lease and that a
person on whom notice has been so served has not, within the time specified in the notice,
claimed the interest of the lessee or (otherwise than as registered proprietor of a sublease) an
interest derived from the lease, and any caveat affecting the lease has lapsed or has been
withdrawn.
(7)  Before recording a foreclosure of mortgage under subsection (6) , the Recorder shall record on the
relevant folio of the Register or registered dealing any sublease claimed pursuant to that subsection that
is binding on the mortgagee and that folio or registered dealing shall upon the sublease being so recorded
evidence the title to the reversion expectant on the sublease.
(8)  Where a lease to which this section applies is affected by a caveat, an application pursuant to
subsection (3) or subsection (6) is, for the purposes of Part IX , a dealing the recording of which is
prohibited by the caveat.
98.   Transmission on death (old procedure)
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
52 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  The devisee or other person claiming an estate of freehold in the land of a deceased registered
proprietor, who died testate before 18th October 1935, or intestate before 1st October 1874, or a person
having a power of disposition over an estate of freehold in land of a deceased testate proprietor who died
before 18th October 1935 –
(a) may make application in an approved form to the Recorder to be registered as proprietor of
the estate; and
(b) shall –
(i) where the deceased proprietor dies testate, deposit with the Recorder the certificate of
the death, the will, or an office copy or probate of the will of the deceased proprietor or
any settlement under which the applicant claims; or
(ii) where the deceased registered proprietor dies intestate, deposit with the Recorder such
evidence of title as the applicant is able to produce.
(2)  A person who makes application under subsection (1) shall state in the application –
(a) the nature of every estate or interest held by any other person at law or in equity in the land
referred to in that subsection that is within the applicant's knowledge; and
(b) that the applicant believes the applicant to be entitled to the estate in that land.
(3)  The statements made in an application referred to in subsection (1) shall be verified by the statutory
declaration of the applicant.
(4)  The Recorder, on being satisfied that the applicant is entitled to the estate claimed in the application,
shall register the applicant as proprietor of that estate.
(5)  Before registering the applicant as proprietor pursuant to subsection (4) , the Recorder –
(a) may, if the Recorder thinks fit, cause notice of the application to be published and given to
such persons (if any) as the Recorder thinks fit; and
(b) must in each notice appoint a time, not less than 30 days from the day on which all the notices
have been published or given, after which the Recorder may register the applicant as proprietor,
unless, in the period between the publication or giving of a notice and the time specified in the
notice, the Recorder receives a caveat forbidding the Recorder from doing so.
(6)  A caveat under subsection (5) shall be subject to the same provisions, and have the same effect with
respect to the application against which it is lodged, as a caveat against an application to bring land
under this Act.
99.   Transmission on death to personal representative
(1)  Where registered land devolved under the Deceased Persons' Estates Act 1874 or devolves under the
Administration and Probate Act 1935 on the personal representative of a deceased registered proprietor,
the Recorder shall, on the lodgement of –
(a) an application by the personal representative in an approved form to be registered proprietor
of the land; and
(b) the probate, letters of administration, or other authority constituting the applicant as personal
representative of the deceased registered proprietor –
make such recording on the relevant folio of the Register or registered dealing as may be necessary to
register the personal representative as proprietor of the land.
(2)  A recording made under subsection (1) may include a statement that the person named in the
recording is registered proprietor as personal representative of the deceased proprietor.
100.   Registration of survivor of joint proprietors, &c.
Where a person becomes entitled to an estate or interest in registered land –
(a) on the death of another person registered with the person as joint proprietor of that estate or
interest; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
53 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) by the determination or defeasance, by death or the occurrence of some other event, of a
registered estate or interest in land –
the Recorder may, on the application of the person so entitled and proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction of
the death or other event, as the case may require, register that person as proprietor of the estate or
interest.
Division 7 - Re-entry on condition broken
101.   Re-entry determining fee
(1)  Where the grantor of registered land in fee subject to a condition has re-entered and recovered
possession of the land upon condition broken, the Recorder, on proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction of
the breach and re-entry, shall make such recording on the relevant folio of the Register as is necessary to
register the grantor as proprietor of the land and on that recording being made the estate of the former
registered proprietor of the land determines, and the Recorder may call in and cancel or amend the
corresponding certificate of title, if any.
(2)  In this section grantor includes a transferor and the successors in title of a grantor.
Division 8 - Covenants running with the land
102.   Covenants which run with freehold registered land
(1)  Except as provided in this Division, the burden of a covenant does not run with freehold registered
land.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3) , the burden of a covenant runs with freehold registered land if –
(a) the covenant was –
(i) entered into before the land was brought under this Act or the repealed Act ; or
(ii) included in a transfer which was registered before the proclaimed date;
and –
(iii) notice of the covenant is recorded on the folio of the Register constituting the title to
the land intended to be burdened; and
(iv) the land intended to be benefited by the covenant is identified in the instrument
containing the covenant;
(b) the covenant is set forth in a sealed plan which has taken effect under Part 3 of the Local
Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 ;
(c) the covenant is contained in a dealing that was registered under section 27B or section 27D of
the Real Property Act 1886 ;
(d) the covenant is created pursuant to subsection (7) or subsection (8) ; or
(e) the covenant is a covenant in gross, within the meaning of the Conveyancing and Law of
Property Act 1884 .
(3)  A covenant which runs with freehold registered land pursuant to subsection (2) may be enforced in
equity notwithstanding any provision of this Act but has no greater operation or effect by the operation
of this section than it would have if the land which it is intended to burden were not registered land and
the registered proprietor of the land were affected in equity by express notice of the covenant.
(4)  Where a transfer registered before the proclaimed date was expressed to be subject to two or more
conditions including at least two of the prescribed conditions specified in subsection (5) , the parties to
the transfer shall be deemed not to have intended conditions of defeasance, but shall be deemed to have
intended to enter into covenants to the same effect as the conditions.
(5)  The following conditions are prescribed conditions for the purposes of subsection (4) :
(a) that the transferor shall not be required to contribute to the cost of erecting any boundary
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
54 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fence between the land sold and any adjoining land belonging to the transferor;
(b) that no building, other than –
(i) a building for a specific use;
(ii) a building of a kind approved by the transferor; or
(iii) a building constructed of materials of a specific kind or materials of a kind approved
by the transferor –
shall be built on the land sold;
(c) that no trade or business, or no trade or business of a specified kind, shall be carried on the
land sold.
(6)  Where the Recorder is satisfied that a recording in the Register indicates the existence of –
(a) a covenant which does not run with the land; or
(b) conditions deemed in accordance with subsection (4) to be covenants which do not run with
the land –
the Recorder may cancel that recording.
(7)  Where registered land is to be made subject to a covenant touching and concerning the land for the
benefit of other land, whether registered land or not, and enforceable in equity by and against the assigns
of the respective proprietors, a dealing in an approved form may be used and lodged for registration.
(8)  Where land subject to a covenant touching and concerning it and enforceable in equity against the
covenantor's assigns by the covenantee's assigns is brought under this Act, a memorandum of the
covenant shall be made up by the Recorder and registered as if it were a dealing made under subsection
(7) .
(9)  Except as provided in subsection (10) , the Recorder shall register the dealing referred to in
subsection (7) by recording it on the folio of the Register for the lands burdened by the covenant.
(10)  The Recorder may refuse to register a dealing under subsection (9) where the provisions of the
dealing are wholly or in part not enforceable in equity between assigns of the parties.
(11)  A covenant that might have been made by a dealing under this section and has not been so made
shall not be enforced in equity between assigns of the parties.
(12)  Where a folio of the Register describes the land by reference to a sealed plan lodged with the
Recorder under Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 , any
obligations set forth in the plan that could be recorded under this section shall have effect as if embodied
in an appropriate dealing recorded on the folios of the Register comprising the titles of all lands
appearing by the Register to be subject to the sealed plan.
(13)  Where a transfer between vendor and purchaser contains a condition of defeasance the purpose of
which could be achieved by means of a dealing under this section, the Recorder may refuse to register
the transfer until that condition has been deleted and the appropriate dealing in accordance with this
section has been lodged with the Recorder.
103.   Effect of identity of parties to covenant
(1)  A covenant which runs with freehold registered land is not affected by the same person being the
registered proprietor at any time of the lands benefited and burdened by the covenant unless the covenant
is expunged from the Register as provided in subsection (2) .
(2)  On the application of the registered proprietor of the lands benefited and burdened by a covenant,
and proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the covenant would have been extinguished but for the
operation of subsection (1) , the Recorder shall expunge the covenant from the Register.
(3)  A covenant comprised in a sealed plan lodged under Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 is to be dealt with under Division 5 of that Part .
104.   Discharge of covenants
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
55 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  A covenant of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a) , paragraph (c) , or paragraph (d) of section 102 (2)
may be discharged by a dealing in an approved form executed –
(a) where the land to which the benefit of the covenant is annexed is registered land, by the
registered proprietor of that land and any other person having a registered interest in that land; or
(b) where the land to which the benefit of the covenant is annexed is not registered land, by a
person entitled wholly to discharge the covenant.
(2)  When a dealing made under this section is lodged for registration, the Recorder shall record it on the
relevant folio of the Register.
(3)  Where a dealing is executed under subsection (1) (b) , the Recorder shall not be concerned to
investigate the title of the person executing it.
104A.   Discharge of covenants in gross
A covenant that is a covenant in gross within the meaning of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act
1884 may be discharged by a dealing in a form approved by the Recorder.
Division 9 - Easements and profits à prendre
105.   Creation of easements
(1)  An easement may be granted in or over registered land for the benefit of any other land –
(a) by the registered proprietor of a freehold estate in the land, by memorandum of transfer in the
form approved under section 58 ; and
(b) by the lessee, by memorandum of lease in the form approved under section 64  –
and registered under this Act.
(2)  A proprietor transferring or leasing registered land may in the transfer or lease –
(a) grant an easement in or over other registered land of which the person is registered proprietor
or lessee, for the benefit of the land transferred or the estate of the lessee under the lease; and
(b) reserve an easement for the benefit of other land retained by the proprietor.
(3)  The Recorder, when registering a memorandum of transfer or lease which grants or reserves an
easement, shall record the grant or reservation upon –
(a) the folio of the Register, or the registered lease, evidencing title to the land burdened by the
easement; and
(b) where the land benefited by the easement is registered land, the folio of the Register or the
registered lease which evidences title to the land benefited.
(4)  In a memorandum of mortgage or memorandum of encumbrance there may be expressed to be
included as appurtenant to the land mortgaged or encumbered an easement over other registered land of
which the mortgagor or encumbrancer is registered proprietor or lessee and in such a case the folio of the
Register or registered lease of that other land shall be specified in the memorandum of mortgage or
memorandum of encumbrance.
(5)  When an easement is expressed to be included in a dealing pursuant to subsection (4) , the Recorder
shall when registering the memorandum of mortgage or memorandum of encumbrance record particulars
of the easement upon the folio of the Register or registered lease evidencing title to the land over which
the easement is expressed to be included.
(6)  When the memorandum of mortgage or memorandum of encumbrance in which an easement is
included pursuant to subsection (4) is registered, that easement shall be deemed to be an easement
appurtenant to the land mortgaged or encumbered for the purpose of enjoyment, leasing, or transfer by
the mortgagee or encumbrancee, or of foreclosure, and so that upon foreclosure in favour of, or lease or
transfer by, the mortgagee or encumbrancee, that easement shall, unless expressly excluded, be created
by the order for foreclosure or by the registration of the lease or transfer.
(7)  On application in writing for that purpose, the Recorder may record in the Register any easement
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
56 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
over or appurtenant to registered land which the Recorder is satisfied has been recognized by an order of
the Supreme Court.
106.   The Register as evidence of easements
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) , a statement in a folio of the Register to the effect that the land comprised
in the folio has the benefit of an easement shall be conclusive evidence that the land has that benefit.
(2)  Subsection (1) shall not be construed so as to give effect as an easement to a right which is not
recognized as an easement at common law.
(3)  An easement shall not be implied from anything appearing on a plan deposited with the Recorder
after the proclaimed date.
107.   Profits à prendre
(1)  A profit à prendre may be granted by an instrument in an approved form, which shall indicate
clearly the nature of the profit à prendre, the period for which it is to be enjoyed, and whether it is to be
enjoyed –
(a) in gross or as appurtenant to other land; and
(b) by the grantee exclusively or by the grantee in common with the grantor.
(2)  The Recorder shall register the instrument referred to in subsection (1)  –
(a) by recording it on the folio of the Register or the registered lease which it burdens; and
(b) where it is appurtenant to registered land, by recording it on the folio of the Register or
registered lease evidencing title to that land.
108.   Release and extinguishment of easements and profits à prendre
(1)  Subject to subsection (4) , an easement or profit à prendre which is recorded in the Register may be
released wholly or partly by the person having the benefit of that easement or profit à prendre by an
instrument in an approved form and registered under this Act.
(2)  Subject to subsection (4) , the Recorder, upon the application of a person having an estate or interest
in land affected by an easement or profit à prendre, or of the Recorder’s own motion, may cancel the
registration of the easement or profit à prendre, in whole or in part, where it appears to the Recorder’s
satisfaction that –
(a) the period of time for which it was intended to subsist has expired;
(b) the event upon which it was intended to determine has occurred; or
(c) it has been abandoned.
(3)  In considering whether an easement or profit à prendre has been abandoned, the Recorder, if
satisfied on evidence that the easement or profit à prendre has not been used for a period of at least 20
years, is to treat that failure to use as conclusive evidence that the easement or profit à prendre has been
abandoned.
(4)  This section has effect notwithstanding sections 28(14) , 40(3)(e)(ia) and 151(1)(e) .
109.   Effect of unity of seisin on registered easements, &c.
(1)  Registered easements and profits à prendre over or for the benefit of registered land are not affected
by –
(a) unity of seisin of that land and of other land appearing from the Register to have the benefit or
burden of the easement or profit à prendre; or
(b) identity at any time of the legal owner of a profit à prendre in gross and the registered
proprietor of the land burdened by the profit à prendre –
unless the easements or profits à prendre are expunged from the Register as provided in subsection (2) .
(2)  On the application of the registered proprietor in whom unity of seisin of the lands benefited and
burdened by an easement or profit à prendre is united, or of the person who is both the legal owner of a
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
57 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
profit à prendre in gross and the registered proprietor of the land burdened by the profit à prendre, and
proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the easement or profit à prendre would have been extinguished
but for the operation of subsection (1) , the Recorder shall expunge the easement or profit à prendre from
the Register.
(3)  An easement or profit à prendre comprised in a sealed plan lodged under Part 3 of the Local
Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 is to be dealt with under Division 5 of
that Part .
110.   Rectification of easements, &c., in old subdivisions
(1)  In this section, plan of subdivision includes –
(a) a previously approved plan within the meaning of section 80 of the Local Government
(Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 ; and
(b) a plan of subdivision that does not require the approval of the corporation under that Act.
(2)  The Recorder may, with the consent of all persons having registered estates or interests in the land
shown in a plan of subdivision comprising land which is under this Act or which the Recorder proposes
to bring under this Act, make an order setting forth in respect of each lot or other piece of land shown in
the plan –
(a) the easements and profits à prendre to be appurtenant to the lot or other piece of land or to
which it is to be subject; and
(b) the benefit or burden of the covenants which are to run with the lot or other piece of land.
(3)  Where some but not all the lots or other pieces shown in the plan are to be affected, the Recorder
may make an order referred to in subsection (2) with the consent of all persons having registered estates
or interests in the lots or other pieces which are to be affected by the order.
(4)  The Recorder may, of the Recorder’s own motion or on the application of any person interested, give
notice in accordance with subsection (6) that the Recorder proposes to make an order referred to in
subsection (2) .
(5)  Without limiting subsection (4) , the Recorder may act as provided in that subsection in any case in
which the plan shows the position of drainage easements but where –
(a) easements have not been granted to the purchasers of lots; or
(b) in the opinion of the Recorder, the easements granted by registered assurances of lots shown
in the plan are not in accordance with a reasonable scheme of easements for the subdivision.
(6)  The Recorder shall give notice under subsection (4) or (14)  –
(a) in the case of registered land which it is proposed to affect, to every person appearing by the
Register to have an interest in that land;
(b) in the case of land not under this Act which it is proposed to affect, to every person whom the
Recorder has found by searching the register of deeds to have an interest in the land; and
(c) to the council of the municipal area in which the land is situated, which shall be deemed to
have an interest in the land affected –
and every notice shall include a copy of the proposed order and be accompanied by a plan showing the
position of the easements referred to in the proposed order, and shall specify a time (being not less than
14 days from the giving of the notice) within which written objections to the proposed order may be
lodged with the Recorder.
(7)  After the expiration of the time limited by notice under subsection (6) , the Recorder –
(a) if written objections have not been lodged with the Recorder, may make an order in terms of
the proposed order; or
(b) if written objections have been lodged with the Recorder, may either –
(i) vary the proposed order in the light of the objections, and give notice of the Recorder’s
new proposal in accordance with subsection (6) ; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
58 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(ii) give notice to such persons as the Recorder thinks proper that the Recorder will hear
any person wishing to support or oppose the proposed order on a day to be specified in
the notice, and at the conclusion of that hearing may make an order in terms of the
proposed order or differing from it in the light of the objections, giving copies forthwith
to all concerned.
(8)  The Recorder shall not give effect to an order made under subsection (7) (b) (ii) before the
expiration of 30 days from the making of that order, and during that period a person affected by the order
may appeal to the Supreme Court which may –
(a) stay proceedings on the order wholly or in part;
(b) quash or vary the order; or
(c) make any order that the Recorder might have made.
(9)  Subject to subsection (8) and to any order of the Supreme Court made under that subsection, the
Recorder may give effect to an order made under this section by –
(a) registering it in the Registry of Deeds if any land affected by the order is not subject to this
Act; and
(b) recording the order upon the folio of the Register evidencing title to any land affected by the
order.
(10)  On the completion of the registration or recording in accordance with subsection (9)  –
(a) the easements specified in the order to be in favour of the Crown or of any public or local
authority constituted by or under any Act or appurtenant to a highway vest accordingly without
further assurance;
(b) the other easements and the profits à prendre and covenants specified in the order come into
being and continue as if created by the most effectual instruments made between proper parties,
and are not affected by –
(i) the unity of seisin of the lands having the burden and benefit of the easement or profit
à prendre;
(ii) identity at any time of the legal owner of a profit à prendre in gross and the registered
proprietor of the land burdened by the profit à prendre; or
(iii) identity of the parties to the covenant –
except that during that unity or identity they are in abeyance, and revive by force of this section
when that unity or identity is broken or destroyed;
(c) any easements or profits à prendre or covenants which are created by an instrument registered
before the completion of the registration or recording in accordance with subsection (9) and
which are not continued by the order, are destroyed;
(d) any subsequent assurance of a block comprised in the plan to which the order relates shall,
without any express mention and notwithstanding any contrary expression, assure that land
together with and subject to any easements and profits à prendre which by the order exist upon or
in favour of that land;
(e) any obligation set forth in the order that could be recorded under section 102 shall have effect
as if embodied in an appropriate dealing recorded on the folios of the Register comprising the
titles of all affected lands; and
(f) the Recorder shall amend any folio of the Register affected by the order and shall make the
same amendments to the corresponding certificate of title when it is produced to the Recorder for
any purpose, or may call in the certificate for amendment.
(11)  The Recorder may proceed concurrently under this section and section 142 , if in the Recorder’s
opinion it is necessary or convenient to do so, notwithstanding that the proceedings under that section
may concern a plan which is not a plan of subdivision.
(12)  The Recorder may make orders as to the payment of costs of the parties attending a hearing under
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
59 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
this section, and those orders shall be filed in the Supreme Court and proceeded upon in the same
manner as similar orders of a judge in chambers.
(13)  The Recorder may, of the Recorder’s own motion or on the application of any person interested,
cancel an order made under this section after it has been registered or recorded and make a fresh order.
(14)  Before taking action under subsection (13) , the Recorder must give notice of the intention to
cancel the order and make a fresh order in accordance with subsection (6) .
(15)  If a fresh order is made under subsection (13) , that fresh order is taken to be an order made under
this section.
Division 10 - Recording of highways
111.   Highways not to be registered as estates
Where by any Act a highway is vested in a highway authority which is not the proprietor of the land
lying under the highway, the highway authority shall not be registered under this Act as proprietor of the
highway, and this Act shall not apply to any extension, diminution, or transfer of the estate of that
authority in the highway.
112.   Recording of highways
(1)  Where a highway exists across registered land and is not recorded on the folio of the Register
evidencing title to that land or in the plan or other description of the land in that folio, the highway
authority charged with the control or maintenance of the highway may obtain a recording of the highway
in accordance with this section.
(2)  The highway authority may tender a consent to the recording of a highway to the registered
proprietor of the land across which the highway exists which, if the registered proprietor signs it,
operates as a deed made between the registered proprietor, the highway authority, and the Recorder, and
may lodge it with the Recorder, who shall make such recording on the relevant folio of the Register, or
in the plan or other description of the land in that folio, as the Recorder shall deem appropriate to show
the existence of the highway.
(3)  A consent under subsection (2) shall be in an approved form.
(4)  If the registered proprietor referred to in subsection (2) refuses to sign the consent referred to in that
subsection when tendered, the highway authority may apply by originating summons to a judge in
chambers for a declaration that the highway exists as shown in the consent tendered and for an order that
the registered proprietor produce the registered proprietor’s grant, or certificate of title, to the Recorder
for amendment accordingly.
(5)  Unless the registered proprietor referred to in subsection (2) satisfies the judge that the registered
proprietor would have a good defence to an action to establish the existence of the whole or some part of
the highway, as shown in the consent tendered, the judge shall make the declaration and order sought,
but shall not award the highway authority any costs where the summons is undefended.
(6)  If the registered proprietor satisfies the judge in accordance with subsection (5) , the judge shall
direct the trial of an issue to determine the existence of so much of the highway as is in dispute, and on
the trial of that issue the Supreme Court may make an appropriate declaration and order.
(7)  The Supreme Court may, by consent, make an appropriate declaration in respect of the highway.
(8)  Except as provided in subsection (5) , costs shall be in the discretion of the Supreme Court.
(9)  A declaration made under this section may be lodged with the Recorder and dealt with in the same
manner as a consent under subsection (2) .
Division 11 - Estates tail
113.   Tenancies in tail to pass fee simple
Where a limitation which would before 8th December 1886 have limited to a person an estate tail,
whether legal or equitable, in registered land is made on or after that day, the limitation shall be deemed
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
60 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
to give that person an estate in fee simple (legal or equitable, as the case may be) in that land.
114.   Where successive life estates are given to parent and child with estate tail to grandchild, parent and
child may bar entail
(1)  Where under a will or settlement executed before 8th December 1886 an estate for life in registered
land is given to a person, followed by an estate for life in remainder to a child of that person and
ultimately or immediately by an estate tail in remainder to a grandchild of that person, that person and
the child of that person may together, when that child attains the age of 18 years, bar the entail and
dispose of the estate as fully and effectually as if the estate given to the child had been instead of an
estate for life an estate tail similar to the estate tail given to the grandchild.
(2)  Subsection (1) applies to equitable and legal estates.
115.   Tenant in tail under this Act entitled to deal with estate as effectually as tenant in tail under general
law
Subject to sections 113 and 114 , an estate tail under this Act has the same incidents as a similar estate
under the general law, and the proprietor of such an estate has the same power to bar the estate tail and
create an estate in fee simple absolute as against all persons whose estates are to take effect after the
determination or in defeasance of the estate tail as is possessed by the owner of a corresponding estate
tail in land not under this Act by virtue of the Estates Tail Act 1853 .
116.   Transferee from tenant in tail may be registered for larger estate which tenant may confer
A transfer or mortgage in the ordinary form by a tenant in tail under this Act having power to create an
estate in fee simple shall create that estate in favour of a transferee, mortgagee, or transferee under the
power of sale in the mortgage, and a transferee from a tenant in tail, or under a mortgage from a tenant in
tail or a mortgagee after foreclosure shall be entitled to be registered as proprietor of the larger estate
which the tenant in tail is empowered to confer, but a mortgage under this Act, if discharged, shall not
bar the entail.
Division 12 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
117.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
118.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
119.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
120.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
121.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
122.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
123.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
124.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
Division 13 - Compulsory acquisition
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
61 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
125.   Interpretation
In this Division, acquiring authority means –
(a) any authority or person authorized by or under any Act or Commonwealth Act to acquire land
compulsorily; and
(b) where land vests in the Commonwealth pursuant to the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act, the Commonwealth or any authority incorporated by any Commonwealth Act
in which the land is for the time being vested.
126.   Registration of acquiring authority as proprietor
(1)  Notwithstanding anything in any Act, where any land vests in an acquiring authority by the
operation of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act or of any Act or Commonwealth Act,
without transfer or conveyance to the acquiring authority, then, upon lodgement by the acquiring
authority, or otherwise as required by the relevant Act, of a plan of the land, and of the notification or
notice of acquisition or other instrument prescribed to be lodged by or under that Act, or, where no
instrument is prescribed, upon the lodgement of an application in an approved form –
(a) where the land is registered land, the Recorder shall register the acquiring authority as
proprietor of the land for the estate or interest acquired in the land and may issue a certificate of
title in relation to the land in the name of the acquiring authority as registered proprietor; or
(b) where the land is not registered land, the Recorder shall, without any further or other
application or the production or examination of any documents of title, bring the land under this
Act by creating a folio of the Register for the land and may issue such certificates of title in
relation to the land as the Recorder considers proper.
(2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(3)  On registering the acquiring authority as proprietor pursuant to subsection (1) (a) , the Recorder
shall make such cancellations, corrections, or recordings in the Register as are necessary, and shall make
the like cancellations, corrections, or recordings upon the corresponding certificates of title, grants, or
duplicate registered dealings when they are next produced to the Recorder, or may call them in for that
purpose.
(4)  Before or at the time of making compensation for the acquisition of registered land, the acquiring
authority shall take possession of the certificates of title, if any, or duplicate registered dealings, if any,
which are produced to it upon any claim for compensation, and shall forthwith lodge them with the
Recorder for the making of such of the necessary cancellations, corrections, or recordings as have not
already been made.
(5)  Where the Recorder brings land under this Act pursuant to subsection (1) (b) , the Recorder shall
give notice that the Recorder has brought the land under this Act in the Registry of Deeds in the
prescribed manner.
(5A)  Where land vests in an acquiring authority or a person on the gazettal of a notice which amends or
revokes a notice of acquisition and a plan of the land affected and a copy of that first-mentioned notice is
lodged with the Recorder, the Recorder –
(a) must make such cancellations, corrections or recordings in the Register as are necessary; and
(b) must make the necessary cancellations, corrections and recordings on the corresponding
certificates of title, grants or duplicate registered dealings when they are next produced to the
Recorder.
(5B)  For the purpose of complying with subsection (5A) (b) , the Recorder may call in such certificates
of title, grants or duplicate dealings as the Recorder considers appropriate.
(6)  A right to compensation in respect of or in any manner arising out of the acquisition or vesting of
any land shall not be prejudiced or affected by a cancellation, correction, or recording made under the
authority of this section.
127.   Acquiring authority to be responsible to persons injured by operation of this Division
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
62 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any person who suffers any deprivation, loss, or damage by reason of –
(a) the bringing of land under this Act; or
(b) a cancellation, correction, or recording in the Register –
pursuant to this Division shall be indemnified by the acquiring authority concerned, but a person
shall not be entitled to receive or shall not receive from the Recorder or out of the assurance fund
any money or compensation or consideration –
(c) in respect of or in any manner arising out of the bringing of land under this Act;
(d) out of any cancellation, correction, or recording in the Register; or
(e) by reason that the Recorder acted under this Division in relation to what purported to be, but
was not, an effective acquisition.
128.   Acquiring authority not to have claim in respect of acquired land
An acquiring authority shall not at any time have a claim against the Recorder or the assurance fund in
respect of land of which it becomes registered as proprietor pursuant to this Division.
129.   Notice to treat, or notice of intention to acquire to be given to Recorder
(1)  Where it is proposed to acquire compulsorily any registered land, and where the Act under which the
acquisition will be made provides that notice to treat or notice of intention to acquire the land is to be
served, a copy of the notice shall be lodged with the Recorder as soon as practicable after the notice is
served, accompanied by a statement specifying the folio of the Register or registered dealing evidencing
title to the land to be acquired, and the Recorder shall make an appropriate recording of the notice upon
that folio or dealing, and the rights under the notice shall be deemed to be an interest for the purposes of
section 40 .
(2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(3)  Where a notice to treat or a notice of intention is withdrawn, the acquiring authority must lodge with
the Recorder as soon as practicable after that withdrawal a copy of the notice of withdrawal or other
document effecting that withdrawal.
(4)  The statement referred to in subsection (1) and the notice or other document referred to in subsection
(3) are to be signed by –
(a) the acquiring authority; or
(b) the clerk, within the meaning of the Land Acquisition Act 1993 , or legal practitioner of the
acquiring authority if the acquiring authority is not the Crown; or
(c) the Secretary of the Department responsible to the Minister for the time being administering
that Act; or
(d) a person authorized by the acquiring authority or that Secretary.
(5)  On receipt of a notice or other document referred to in subsection (3) , the Recorder must make such
recordings in, or do such corrections to, the Register as the Recorder considers appropriate.
130.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
63 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART VII - Settled Land
131.   Application of Settled Land Act 1884 to land held under this Act
(1)  In the application of the Settled Land Act 1884 to settled land held under this Act, the following
provisions have effect:
(a) the registered proprietor or the registered proprietors shall be deemed to be the trustee or
trustees of the settlement;
(b) where under the Settled Land Act 1884 any power or authority is conferred upon a tenant for
life, then upon the written request of the tenant for life, and upon the performance by the tenant
for life of the conditions imposed by that Act upon the exercise of that power or authority by a
tenant for life, the registered proprietor or registered proprietors shall exercise that power or
authority;
(c) where under the Settled Land Act 1884 an instrument is to be executed by a tenant for life in
order to exercise any power or authority conferred on a tenant for life, that instrument shall be
executed by the registered proprietor or registered proprietors, and that execution shall have the
same operation as the execution of such an instrument by a tenant for life is declared to have
under that Act;
(d) a registered proprietor or registered proprietors executing a power or authority in accordance
with the Settled Land Act 1884 upon the written request of the tenant for life, or with the
sanction of the Supreme Court if, being the tenant or the tenants for life, the registered proprietor
or registered proprietors are the sole trustee or trustees of the settlement, shall not by reason of
executing that power or authority incur any personal liability to the registered proprietor’s or
registered proprietors’ beneficiaries or to any other person;
(e) the registered proprietor or registered proprietors referred to in paragraph (d) shall not, for the
purpose of executing any power or authority or complying with any request referred to in that
paragraph, be bound to enter into any personal covenant or contract;
(f) where under the Settled Land Act 1884 it is provided that land shall be conveyed to any uses
or trusts, that expression shall be taken to mean that the land shall be transferred to trustees, and
shall be held by them as trustees upon the uses or trusts;
(g) where under the Settled Land Act 1884 it is provided that a contract made by a tenant for life
shall be binding on the settled land, that expression shall be taken also to mean that the contract
shall be binding on the registered proprietor, and that the registered proprietor shall be bound to
give effect to the contract in the same manner as if the registered proprietor had made the
contract, subject, however, to that Act;
(h) the term deed used in the Settled Land Act 1884 includes any dealing executed in pursuance
of this Act;
(i) notwithstanding anything contained in this section, a registered proprietor of a life estate in
registered land may, in the exercise of the powers of a tenant for life under the Settled Land Act
1884 , transfer the fee simple of that land by a transfer which contains a receipt for the purchase
price by the trustees of the settlement and otherwise in an approved form.
(2)  Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall be taken to require any person dealing with a registered
proprietor of registered land to inquire whether all or any of the provisions of the Settled Land Act 1884
have been complied with in respect of the proposed dealing.
(3)  In this section the term registered proprietor includes any person possessed of or entitled to any
charge upon land.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
64 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART VIII - Trusts
132.   Trusts
(1)  The Recorder shall not record particulars of any trust in the Register.
(2)  A dealing may state that a person named in the dealing is a trustee –
(a) for the purpose of expressing the consideration;
(b) for the purpose of providing that the person named assumes liability only to the extent of an
estate or interest of which the person is a trustee; and
(c) where the person named is a trustee pursuant to an Act or Commonwealth Act (other than an
Act applicable to trustees generally) –
but shall not disclose particulars of a trust.
(3)  The Recorder, in the Recorder’s discretion, may in a folio of the Register or certificate of title
describe a registered proprietor as a trustee where –
(a) the proprietor was so described in the dealing by which the proprietor became registered as a
proprietor; or
(b) in the Recorder's opinion it is convenient for the administration of this Act that the proprietor
should be so described.
(4)  The describing of a person as a trustee in a dealing or in a folio of the Register or certificate of title
does not affect the operation of section 41 .
(5)  A registered proprietor of an estate or interest who is a trustee of the estate or interest shall hold the
estate or interest in trust for the persons and purposes to which it is applicable by virtue of the instrument
creating the trust, but for the purpose of a dealing with the estate or interest the registered proprietor
shall be deemed to be the absolute proprietor of the estate or interest.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
65 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART IX - Caveats
Division 1 - Caveats against dealings
133.   Caveat against dealings
(1)  Where –
(a) a settlor transfers registered land to be held by the transferee as trustee; or
(b) a person claims an estate or interest in registered land under an unregistered dealing, or by
devolution in law or otherwise –
that settlor or person may, by caveat in an approved form lodged with the Recorder, forbid the
registration of any dealing affecting that land, estate, or interest.
(2)  A caveat under this section shall state –
(a) the name and address of the caveator;
(b) an address for service of notices on the caveator;
(c) the estate or interest claimed by the caveator;
(d) the folio of the Register, or the registered dealing, affected by the caveat; and
(e) where the caveat relates to part only of the land in a folio of the Register or registered dealing,
such further description as may be necessary to identify the subject land –
and shall be signed by the caveator or by the caveator’s legal practitioner, attorney, or authorized agent.
(3)  If the Recorder does not refuse to register a caveat lodged pursuant to this section the Recorder
shall –
(a) record the caveat on the folio of the Register or registered dealing affected by the caveat; and
(b) give notice of the caveat to the registered proprietor of the estate or interest affected by the
caveat.
(4)  A notice relating to a caveat lodged pursuant to this section, or to any proceedings in respect of the
caveat, shall be deemed to be duly served upon the caveator if served at the caveator’s address for
service stated in the caveat, or at the office of the legal practitioner, attorney, or authorized agent who
may have signed the caveat.
(5)  A caveat under this section may be withdrawn in the manner approved by the Recorder or the
approved form –
(a) by the caveator or, on the caveator’s behalf, by –
(i) the caveator's legal practitioner; or
(ii) an agent authorized in writing by the caveator to withdraw the caveat;
(b) where a caveator is dead –
(i) by the caveator’s personal representative; or
(ii) by the surviving caveator where the estate or interest claimed by the caveat was stated
in the caveat to be held by caveators as joint tenants;
(c) where the caveator is bankrupt, by the trustee, the Official Receiver (within the meaning of
section 95 ), or other person in whom the estate or interest claimed in the caveat has vested
pursuant to the law relating to bankruptcy;
(d) where the caveator is a defunct company which was incorporated under the Corporations Act,
by ASIC;
(e) where the caveator is a friendly society which has been dissolved, by the Registrar of Friendly
Societies;
(f) where the caveator is a building society which has been terminated or dissolved, by the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
66 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Registrar of Building Societies;
(g) by the administrator of the estate of a person under the Guardianship and Administration Act
1995 to whom is committed the management and care of the estate or interest claimed in the
caveat; or
(h) by the legal practitioner to a person mentioned in paragraph (b) , paragraph (c) , or paragraph
(g) .
(6)  The Recorder shall not be concerned to be satisfied that a legal practitioner who signs a withdrawal
of caveat as legal practitioner to the caveator or to a person mentioned in paragraph (b) , paragraph (c) ,
or paragraph (g) of subsection (5) has authority to withdraw the caveat.
134.   Caveat may be lodged by judgment creditor
(1)  A judgment creditor of a person registered as the proprietor of registered land may lodge a caveat in
an approved form.
(2)  A caveat under this section shall –
(a) be accompanied by an office copy of the judgment or order upon which it is founded; and
(b) identify, to the Recorder's satisfaction, the judgment debtor with the registered proprietor
named in the folio of the Register or registered dealing affected by the caveat.
(3)  The practice, procedure, and mode of dealing with a caveat under this section shall in all other
respects be the same as if the judgment creditor referred to in subsection (1) claimed an estate or interest
in that person's land within the meaning of section 133 .
(4)  At the expiration of each period of 5 years from the entry or re-entry of a caveat under this section
the caveat shall lapse and cease to be of any effect unless it is re-entered as provided by this section.
(5)  When the time prescribed by subsection (4) expires on a day on which the office of the Recorder is
closed the re-entry is effective if done on the next day on which the office is open.
(6)  The Recorder shall re-enter a caveat under this section if, before it lapses, the caveator or the person
for the time being entitled to enforce the judgment mentioned in the caveat so requests in an approved
form and pays the prescribed fee.
(7)  Nothing in this section –
(a) revives or restores a judgment which is extinguished or barred; or
(b) affects or prejudices a judgment as between the parties to the judgment, their representatives,
or those deriving as volunteers under them.
(8)  Where a judgment creditor lodges a caveat under section 48B , the judgment creditor must provide
such particulars of the judgment or order on which the caveat is founded as the Recorder may require
and in such manner as the Recorder may require.
135.   Proceedings to remove caveat
(1)  Any person, other than the caveator, who claims an estate or interest in land affected by a caveat
under this Act may summon the caveator to attend before the Supreme Court to show cause why the
caveat should not be removed.
(2)  The Supreme Court, on proof that the caveator has been summoned, may make such order, either ex
parte or otherwise, as it considers necessary and may determine by whom the costs of, and incidental to,
the summons and the proceedings on the summons, and the entering and removal of the caveat shall be
borne.
136.   Lapsing of caveat on registration of dealing
(1)  On the lodgement for registration of a dealing the registration of which is forbidden by a caveat
lodged pursuant to this Part, and on the application of the registered proprietor against whom the caveat
was lodged or of a person claiming under the dealing, the Recorder shall serve on the caveator a notice
of the Recorder’s intention to register the dealing on the expiration of the period of 28 days after the
service of the notice, and shall register the dealing unless within that period –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
67 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) an order to the contrary is made by the Supreme Court and that order or written notice of the
order is served on the Recorder; or
(b) the dealing is withdrawn or for any reason ceases to be in order for registration.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , a dealing shall not be deemed to have been lodged for
registration until (except for the existence of the caveat in respect of which notice is to be given) it is in
order for registration.
(3)  Where, after the service of a notice of intention to register a dealing, the dealing to which the notice
relates is withdrawn or for any reason becomes incapable of registration, the notice ceases to have effect
and the caveat remains in full force and effect.
(4)  Unless an order to the contrary has been made and served on the Recorder under subsection (1) (a) ,
a caveat lapses and ceases to affect land at the expiration of 28 days after the service pursuant to
subsection (1) of a notice of intention to register a dealing.
(5)  Where, after serving a notice of intention to register a dealing, the Recorder registers a dealing that
does not completely dispose of the estate of the registered proprietor in the land to which the caveat
relates, the caveat shall be deemed to have lapsed only to the extent necessary to permit that registration.
136A.   Cancellation of caveat on application of proprietor of estate or interest
(1)  On application by a registered proprietor against whom a caveat is lodged (other than under
section 134 ), the Recorder is to serve on the caveator a notice in accordance with subsection (3) .
(2)  An application under subsection (1) is to be in a form approved by the Recorder.
(3)  A notice under subsection (1) is to state that the Recorder will cancel the caveat on the expiry of 28
days after the day on which the notice is served unless –
(a) an order is made by the Supreme Court extending the operation of the caveat –
(i) for such further period as is specified in the order; or
(ii) until the further order of that Court; and
(b) that order, or an office copy of that order, is lodged with the Recorder.
(4)  If –
(a) an order referred to in subsection (3) has not been obtained and lodged with the Recorder
before the expiry of the 28-day period referred to in subsection (3) , the Recorder is, unless
paragraph (b) applies, to cancel the caveat on the expiry of that 28-day period; or
(b) where the period referred to in paragraph (a) expires on a day on which the office of the
Recorder is closed and an order referred to in subsection (3) has not been obtained and lodged
with the Recorder before the end of the next day on which the office is open, the Recorder is to
cancel the caveat on the expiry of that next day.
137.   No registration affecting land in respect of which caveat lodged
(1)  Subject to this section, so long as a caveat forbidding the registration of a dealing remains in force,
the Recorder shall not, except with the written consent of a person entitled to withdraw the caveat,
record any dealing upon the folio of the Register, or the registered dealing, affected by the caveat.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not operate to prevent the recording of –
(a) a dealing which has been lodged for registration prior to the lodging of the caveat; or
(b) a dealing lodged by or on behalf of the Crown or a public or local authority –
(i) pursuant to a power –
(A) to resume or take land;
(B) to restrict the use or alienation of land;
(C) to erect works on land;
(D) to charge land with the payment of money; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
68 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(E) to give notice of its intention to do one or more of the things referred to in
sub-subparagraphs (A) , (B) , (C) , and (D) ;
(ii) pursuant to an Act which expressly or impliedly authorizes a recording
notwithstanding the existence of a caveat; or
(iii) in prescribed circumstances; or
(c) a scheme within the meaning of section 3 of the Strata Titles Act 1998 ; or
(d) a final plan within the meaning of Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 .
(3)  Except to the extent that it otherwise specifies, a caveat referred to in subsection (1) does not prevent
the Recorder from recording in the Register –
(a) a transfer under Division 11 of Part 9 of the Local Government Act 1993 ;
(b) a writ within the meaning of section 61 ;
(ba) a declaration of severance of a joint tenancy pursuant to section 63 ;
(c) a dealing executed by a registered mortgagee, or a registered encumbrancee, in pursuance of a
power of sale or lease contained in the mortgage or encumbrance or conferred on the mortgagee
or encumbrancee by this Act;
(d) a discharge of mortgage or encumbrance pursuant to section 89 , section 90 , section 93 ,
section 94 , or section 148 ;
(e) if the caveat lapsed pursuant to section 136 so as to allow registration of a lease, mortgage or
encumbrance, a subsequent dealing by the proprietor of the lease, mortgage or encumbrance
(including a dealing that is an extension or variation of that lease, mortgage or encumbrance);
(ea) if the caveator consented to the registration of a lease, mortgage or encumbrance, a
subsequent dealing by the proprietor of the lease, mortgage or encumbrance (other than a dealing
that is an extension or variation of that lease, mortgage or encumbrance);
(f) an order for foreclosure under section 86 ;
(g) a transmission on the death of a registered proprietor under section 98 or section 99 ;
(h) the registration as proprietor of an applicant under section 100 ;
(i) the discharge of a covenant pursuant to section 104 ;
(j) on the folio or registered dealing constituting the title to the land benefited, a grant of
easement or profit à prendre;
(k) on the folio or registered dealing constituting the title to the land burdened, a release or
cancellation of easement or profit à prendre;
(l) an order under section 110 ;
(m) an expungement under section 103 or section 109 ;
(n) a highway under section 112 ;
(o) a vesting order under section 138B , section 138D or section 138X ;
(p) the registration of a person as proprietor under section 138A ;
(q) a final order under section 142 ; or
(r) a change in the name, or a notification of the full and correct name, of a registered proprietor.
(4)  Where the Recorder pursuant to subsection (2) or subsection (3) records a dealing –
(a) that completely disposes of the estate of the registered proprietor in the land to which the
caveat relates, the caveat lapses and ceases to have any effect; or
(b) that does not completely dispose of the estate of the registered proprietor in that land, the
caveat remains in full force and effect after that recording.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
69 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5)  For the purpose of subsection (4) , a registration effected under section 98 or section 100 or a
recording made under section 99 shall be deemed not to dispose completely of the estate of the
registered proprietor whose estate is transmitted under those sections.
Division 2 - Compensation for lodging caveat without sufficient cause
138.   Compensation for lodging caveat without sufficient cause
(1)  A person who lodges a caveat under this Act with the Recorder without reasonable cause shall be
liable to any person who may have sustained damage as a result of the caveat being lodged for such
compensation as a judge, on a summons in chambers, deems just.
(2)  The costs of a summons referred to in subsection (1) and all proceedings in connection with the
summons shall be in the discretion of the judge, and execution may issue for the amount of
compensation, if any, and of costs ordered by the judge to be paid in such and the like manner as if the
amount had been awarded in a judgment in an action in the Supreme Court.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
70 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART IXA - Orders to vest land
138A.   Registration as proprietor of person entitled to land by operation of any Act
(1)  In this section,
Act includes an Act of the Commonwealth.
(2)  The Recorder, on proof to the Recorder’s satisfaction that a person other than the registered
proprietor has become entitled to be registered as proprietor of registered land, either alone or jointly or
in common with that registered proprietor, because–
(a) the land purports to have been vested in that person, or a person through whom that person
claims, by another Act, or by reason of anything done under another Act; or
(b) that person is entitled to have that land so vested in that person by the operation of another
Act, either directly or by reason of anything done under that Act –
may, of the Recorder’s own motion, or on the application in an approved form of a person in whom the
land is vested or who has become so entitled, on such evidence as appears to the Recorder sufficient, and
after such notice (if any) to such person as the Recorder considers proper, register the person in whom
the land is vested, or who has become so entitled, as the proprietor of such estate in the land as the
Recorder considers appropriate.
(3)  For the purposes of subsection (2) , the Recorder may make such recordings, cancellations and
corrections in the Register or a plan relevant to a folio of the Register, and may issue such certificates of
title, as appear to the Recorder to be necessary or proper and may call in any certificate of title, grant or
duplicate registered dealing.
138B.   Recorder to carry out order of Supreme Court vesting trust estate
(1)  Where a person interested in registered land appears to the Supreme Court to be a trustee of that land
and an order is made by the Supreme Court, the Recorder, on application supported by an office copy of
the order, must make such recording in the Register as the Recorder thinks necessary to register the
person in whom the order purports to vest the land as proprietor of the land.
(2)  Unless and until a recording is made under subsection (1) , the order referred to in that subsection
has no effect or operation in transferring or otherwise vesting the land.
138C.   Registration of dealing by person appointed by court
Where a direction, judgment or order of a court of competent jurisdiction directs, appoints or empowers
a person other than the registered proprietor to dispose of registered land, the Recorder may refuse to
register a dealing executed under the direction, judgment or order unless the dealing –
(a) indicates that it is executed under; and
(b) is supported by an office copy of –
the direction, judgment or order.
138D.   Recorder may make vesting order in certain circumstances when purchaser in possession
(1)  If, on application to the Recorder, it is proved to the Recorder’s satisfaction that the applicant–
(a) is in possession of registered land and no claim to recover the land has been made by the
registered proprietor of that land or the registered proprietor’s heirs, personal representatives or
assigns; and
(b) is entitled in equity and good conscience to be registered as proprietor of an estate in fee
simple in the land in consequence of a sale of the land; and
(c) is unable to obtain a transfer of the land from the registered proprietor of the land because the
registered proprietor is dead or residing out of Tasmania or cannot be found or for any reason it is
impracticable to obtain the registered proprietor’s signature within a reasonable time–
the Recorder may, if in the Recorder’s opinion the case can properly be dealt with under this section
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
71 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rather than by an application under section 138W , make an order vesting the land in that person for an
estate in fee simple.
(1A)  An order under subsection (1) may be made only with respect to the whole of the land described in
a folio of the Register.
(2)  Where the sale referred to in subsection (1) was not made by the registered proprietor, the Recorder
must not make an order under that subsection unless –
(a) at least 15 years have elapsed since the sale; and
(b) at least 15 years have elapsed since the last registration on the folio of the Register
constituting the title to the land of a transfer, mortgage, encumbrance or lease.
(3)  An order made under subsection (1) vests the land in the applicant subject to registered easements
and other registered interests, except that it may vest the land free from any mortgage or encumbrance
which could be discharged under section 91 if evidence satisfactory to the Recorder is produced.
(4)  The Recorder may –
(a) reject an application under subsection (1) wholly or in part; or
(b) make such requisitions as to the title claimed to be acquired, or as to any other matter relating
to the application, as the Recorder thinks fit.
(5)  The Recorder, if the Recorder does not reject an application under subsection (1) , must –
(a) direct that notice be given in a form approved by the Recorder in at least one newspaper that
is published, and circulating generally, in Tasmania and that is available in the locality in which
the relevant land is situated; and
(b) state in the notice that on the expiration of 30 days after the date of that notice the Recorder
may make and register a vesting order in favour of the applicant.
(6)  The notice is to be given to every person appearing by the Register to have any estate or interest in
the land, or in any mortgage or encumbrance recorded on the folio of the Register relating to that land.
(7)  An applicant under subsection (1) must cause a copy of the notice to be posted in a conspicuous
place on the land or at such place as the Recorder may direct and to be kept so posted for not less than 30
days before the granting of the application.
(8)  The notice is to appoint a time, not less than 30 days from the advertisement or service of the notice
at or after the expiration of which the Recorder, unless a caveat is lodged forbidding it, may make a
vesting order as provided in this section.
(9)  At any time before making a vesting order under this section, the Recorder may, notwithstanding
any direction previously given by the Recorder as to the application under subsection (1) , reject the
application wholly or in part if the applicant fails to comply to the Recorder’s satisfaction with any
requisition made or direction given by the Recorder.
(10)  On making a vesting order under this section, the Recorder –
(a) must make such recordings, cancellations and corrections in the Register as the Recorder
considers necessary to give effect to the vesting order and to register the person in whom the
order vests the land as proprietor of the land; and
(b) may call in any certificates of title and grants for the making of those recordings,
cancellations and corrections.
138E.   Caveat forbidding granting of application under section 138D
(1)  A person claiming an estate or interest in the land in respect of which an application under
section 138D is made may, before the Recorder makes a vesting order in respect of the application, lodge
a caveat with the Recorder in an approved form forbidding the granting of the application.
(2)  A caveat under this section lapses unless the caveator has, within 30 days after lodgement, lodged
with the Recorder a document in an approved form specifying the grounds for the caveat.
(3)  The Recorder must not proceed with the application to which the caveat relates unless –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
72 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) the caveat has been withdrawn; or
(b) the caveat has lapsed; or
(c) if grounds for the caveat have been lodged within the time specified in subsection (2) , the
Recorder has carried out an investigation of the caveat.
(4)  In investigating the caveat, the Recorder may make such investigations as the Recorder considers
necessary for the proper determination of the caveat, including conducting an inquiry under
section 160(2) .
(4A)  On completing the investigation of the caveat, the Recorder may grant or refuse to grant the
application to which the caveat relates.
(5)  On the application of any person who the Supreme Court is satisfied has a proper interest in the
matter, the Court may remove into the Court any proceedings before the Recorder on an application for
an order under this Part.
(6)  A caveat under this section may be withdrawn as provided by section 133(5) and (6) but the other
provisions of that section do not apply to the caveat.
138F.   Restriction on renewal of caveats
(1)  Unless permitted by a Supreme Court order, a caveat that has lapsed or been withdrawn under
section 138E may not be renewed and a new caveat may not be lodged by or on behalf of the same
person in respect of the same estate or interest.
(2)  A copy of an order made under subsection (1) is to be attached to the caveat to which it refers.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
73 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART IXB - Possessory Title
Division 1 - Preliminary
138G.   Interpretation
(1)  In this Part –
dominant tenement means land that is claimed to have the benefit of rights amounting to an
easement;
servient tenement means land that is claimed to have the burden of rights amounting to an
easement.
(2)  For the purposes of this Part, a person is taken to be under disability while –
(a) the person is an infant; or
(b) the person is incapable, by reason of mental illness, of managing the person’s property or
affairs.
(3)  For the purposes of, but without limiting, subsection (2)(b) , a person is presumed to be incapable,
by reason of mental illness, of managing the person’s property or affairs –
(a) while the person is subject to an assessment order or treatment order under the Mental Health
Act 2013 ; or
(b) while a guardianship order or an administration order in respect of the person’s estate is in
force under the Guardianship and Administration Act 1995 ; or
(c) while the Public Trustee has under Part VII of the Public Trustee Act 1930 the powers of the
administrator of the person’s estate.
138H.   Application to unregistered land
This Part applies to a dealing with land that is not registered land where that dealing with that land is not
otherwise covered by this Act.
Division 2 - Right to acquire easements
138I.   Abolition of common law rules
(1)  This Division supersedes the rules of the common law for the acquisition of easements by
prescription.
(2)  The rule of law known as the doctrine of lost modern grant for the acquisition of easements is
abolished.
138J.   Acquisition of easements by possession
(1)  A person who has exercised rights which may amount to an easement at common law for a period of
not less than 15 years, or not less than 30 years if the owner of the land is a person under disability, may
apply, in accordance with Division 3 , to the Recorder for an order vesting an easement in respect of
those rights in the person.
(2)  An application is to be in a form approved by the Recorder.
(3)  The Recorder may make an order referred to in subsection (1) in favour of –
(a) an applicant who, after giving notice under section 138K(1) , continues to exercise rights
which the Recorder considers may amount to an easement; or
(b) an applicant who, after giving notice under section 138K(1) , has been prevented or hindered
in the exercise of rights which the Recorder considers may amount to an easement by the direct
or indirect action of the owner of the servient tenement; or
(c) an applicant who has exercised rights in accordance with subsection (1) which the Recorder
considers may amount to an easement but, before giving notice under section 138K(1) , has been
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
74 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
prevented or hindered in the further exercise of those rights by the direct or indirect action of the
owner of the servient tenement if the applicant gives notice under section 138K(1) within 180
days after first becoming so prevented or hindered in the further exercise of those rights.
Division 3 - Procedure for vesting of easements
138K.   Applicant to notify owner of servient tenement
(1)  Before lodging an application for an easement under this Part, the applicant must give written notice
of the claim, in the approved form, to the owner of the servient tenement and produce evidence
satisfactory to the Recorder that the applicant has done so.
(2)  The owner of the land may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice, lodge with the Recorder a
notice of objection in an approved form against the easement claimed.
(3)  If the owner does not lodge a notice of objection, the Recorder must consider the application in
accordance with this Part.
(4)  If the owner lodges a notice of objection, the Recorder may not consider the application unless the
Recorder is satisfied that the applicant would suffer serious hardship if the application is not granted.
138L.   Requirements for application
(1)  In addition to the requirements of section 138K(1) , an applicant for an easement under this Part
must show that –
(a) during the relevant period, the applicant has enjoyed the easement in the relevant land as of
right; and
(b) the easement has not been enjoyed by force or secretly; and
(c) during the relevant period, the enjoyment of the easement has not been by virtue of a written
or oral agreement made before or during that period unless the applicant can show that the
relevant period commenced after any such agreement had terminated; and
(d) during the relevant period, there has been no unity of seisin of the relevant dominant and
servient tenements; and
(e) during the relevant period, the owner of the servient tenement knew, or as a reasonable owner
of land diligent in the protection of the owner’s interests ought to have known, of the enjoyment
of the easement; and
(f) the right for which the easement is claimed is not of a temporary nature; and
(g) the applicant is the holder of an estate in fee simple in the dominant tenement or is under this
Act or any other law entitled to such an estate as against the holder of an estate in fee simple in
the servient tenement –
and the applicant must produce evidence from at least one disinterested person in support of the
easement claimed.
(2)  An application under this Division is, unless the Recorder otherwise directs, to be supported by a
plan of survey, with survey notes, of the land in respect of which the easement is claimed certified as
correct by a surveyor registered and certificated under the Surveyors Act 2002 .
(3)  The Recorder may –
(a) reject an application under this Division wholly or in part; or
(b) make such requisitions as to the easement claimed, or as to any other matter relating to the
application, as the Recorder thinks fit.
(4)  At any time before the making of an order referred to in section 138J , the Recorder may reject the
application, wholly or in part, if the applicant has failed within a reasonable time to comply to the
Recorder's satisfaction with any requisition made by the Recorder.
138M.   Tenants in common
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
75 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Where 2 or more applicants for an easement under this Part have interests in common, it is sufficient if
one of them can show that that applicant has complied with all the requirements of this Part.
138N.   No easement in gross
Nothing in this Part is taken to confer a right to acquire an easement in a case where there is no land
capable of benefitting from the easement.
138P.   Character of easement
(1)  An easement that is vested under this Part –
(a) is to be in respect of a right that is capable of being granted as an easement under the common
law or any enactment; and
(b) is to be capable of existing as an easement appurtenant to the dominant tenement or an
ascertainable part of the dominant tenement; and
(c) is to be limited to the same character, extent and degree of use throughout the relevant period.
(2)  Where a person for whom an easement is vested under this Part has exercised additional rights for
the period required under this Part, the person is entitled to the grant of an additional easement in respect
of those rights.
138Q.   Power of Recorder to make recordings, &c.
On the vesting of an easement under this Part, the Recorder –
(a) must make such recordings in the Register as the Recorder considers necessary to give effect
to the easement and its effect on the dominant tenement and the servient tenement; and
(b) may call in certificates of title, grants and duplicate registered dealings, if any, for making
those recordings.
138R.   Abolition of claim for profit à prendre
After the commencement of the Land Titles Amendment (Law Reform) Act 2001 a claim may not be
made under this Part for a profit à prendre.
Division 4 - Caveat by owner
138S.   Power of owner to lodge caveat
(1)  An owner of land may lodge a caveat in an approved form with the Recorder giving notice that a
person exercising rights which may amount to an easement is doing so with the permission of the owner.
(2)  If the caveat is lodged before the period when an easement may be claimed under this Part and the
caveat is in force under this section –
(a) time does not run against the caveator or any person claiming through the caveator; and
(b) time does not run in favour of the person named in the caveat exercising rights which may
amount to an easement or any person claiming through any such person; and
(c) the period of enjoyment of the easement before the lodgement of the caveat is to be
discounted, whether or not the caveat is later withdrawn.
(3)  The caveat is to state –
(a) the name and address of the person exercising rights which may amount to an easement; and
(b) the folio of the Register of the dominant tenement; and
(c) the nature and description of the easement which may be claimed.
(4)  The Recorder must give notice of the caveat to the person named in the caveat exercising rights
which may amount to an easement.
(5)  A caveat under this section may be withdrawn as provided by section 133(5) and (6) .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
76 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Division 5 - Title by possession
138T.   Title by possession
A person who has been in possession of land owned by another person may acquire title to that land in
accordance with this Division but not otherwise.
138U.   Restriction on title by possession
(1)  For the purposes of an application to acquire title to any land by possession, any period during
which council rates have been or are paid by or on behalf of the owner is to be disregarded.
(2)  This section does not apply to an application if the relevant council has certified in writing that it is
unclear who has paid, or is paying, the relevant council rates.
138V.   Requirements for title by possession
In determining an application for title based on possession, the Recorder must consider all the
circumstances of the claim, the conduct of the parties and in particular –
(a) whether, during the relevant period, the applicant enjoyed possession of the land as of right;
and
(b) whether there is any reason to suppose that during the relevant period that enjoyment was by
force or secretly or that that enjoyment was by virtue of a written or oral agreement made before
or during that period unless the applicant can show that any such agreement terminated before
that period; and
(c) the nature and period of the possession; and
(d) the improvements on the land and in particular –
(i) when they were made; and
(ii) by whom they were made; and
(e) whether or not the land has been enclosed by the applicant; and
(f) whether during the relevant period the applicant acknowledged ownership, paid rent or made
any other payment in respect of the land –
and the applicant must produce evidence from at least one disinterested person in support of the
application.
138W.   Registered proprietor to hold land on trust
(1)  Subject to this section, the Limitation Act 1974 applies to the title of a registered proprietor of an
estate in registered land in the same manner and to the same extent as that Act applies to the title of a
proprietor of land which is not registered land.
(2)  The estate of a registered proprietor of registered land is not extinguished by the Limitation Act
1974 , but where the estate would have been extinguished if the land had not been registered land, the
registered proprietor of the estate is taken to hold that estate in trust for the person who, under that Act,
would have acquired title to that estate if that land had not been registered land.
(3)  Nothing in subsection (2) affects the estate or interest of any other person in the land which would
not have been extinguished by that person's possession if that land had not been registered land.
(4)  A person who claims that the registered proprietor of an estate in registered land holds that estate in
trust for the person under subsection (2) may apply to the Recorder in an approved form for an order
vesting in the person the legal estate which the person would have acquired if the land had not been
registered land.
(5)  The right of a person to apply under subsection (4) is not affected during the period of the person’s
possession of the land by –
(a) the bringing of the land in respect of which that person applies under this Part or the repealed
Act; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
77 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) the making of a vesting order in respect of the land under –
(i) section 138D of this Act or section 14 of the Real Property Act 1893 ; or
(ii) the Real Property (Special Vesting Orders) Act 1973 .
(6)  The right of a person to apply under subsection (4) is not affected –
(a) by the registration of any dealing by, or the registration of the transmission of the title of, a
registered proprietor of the land in respect of which that person applies; or
(b) by the recertification by the Recorder in the course of the administration of this Act or the
repealed Act of the estate in the land in respect of which that person applies –
unless that person's possession ceased on or before 31 October 1974.
(7)  An application under subsection (4) is, unless the Recorder otherwise directs, to be supported by a
plan of survey, with survey notes, of the land certified as correct by a surveyor registered and certificated
under the Surveyors Act 2002 .
(8)  Before making an application under subsection (4) , the applicant must –
(a) publish, in at least one newspaper that is published, and circulating generally, in Tasmania and
that is available in the locality in which the relevant land is situated, a notice that –
(i) is in a form approved by the Recorder; and
(ii) states that the applicant intends to make the application; and
(b) give notice of the application in a form approved by the Recorder to any person who, as
endorsed on the folio of the Register relating to that land, has an interest in the land or in any
mortgage or encumbrance recorded on that folio; and
(c) give notice of the application in a form approved by the Recorder to any person who has an
unregistered interest in the land which may have been lodged with the Recorder; and
(d) cause a copy of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) to be posted in a conspicuous place on
the land and to be kept so posted for not less than 30 days before making the application.
(9)  An application for title by possession is to be lodged with the Recorder not later than 60 days after
the date of the last notice given under subsection (8) .
(10)  A notice under this section is to be in a form approved by the Recorder.
(11)  The Recorder may –
(a) reject an application under subsection (4) wholly or in part; or
(b) make such requisitions as to the estate claimed to be held in trust, or as to any other matter
relating to the application, as the Recorder thinks fit.
(12)  At any time before making the vesting order, the Recorder may reject the application, wholly or in
part, if the applicant fails to comply to the Recorder’s satisfaction within a reasonable time with any
requisition made.
138X.   Power of Recorder to make vesting order
(1)  Subject to section 138W , the Recorder may make an order vesting in the applicant under this
Division the legal estate which the applicant would have acquired, if the land had not been registered
land, free from –
(a) all estates and interests recorded on the folio of the Register or registered dealing evidencing
title to the land which would have been determined or extinguished by the applicant's possession
of the land; and
(b) any mortgage or encumbrance which could be discharged under section 91 if evidence
satisfactory to the Recorder is produced; and
(c) any registered easement or profit à prendre which –
(i) is not an easement or profit à prendre created by a plan sealed under Part 3 of the
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
78 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 ; or
(ii) has been proved to the Recorder's satisfaction to have been abandoned –
but subject to any restrictive covenant notified on that folio or registered dealing.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the Recorder may treat evidence of failure to use an easement or
a profit à prendre for a period of not less than 20 years as conclusive evidence that the easement or profit
à prendre has been abandoned.
(3)  On making a vesting order under this section, the Recorder –
(a) must make such recordings, cancellations and corrections in the Register as the Recorder
considers necessary to give effect to the vesting order and to register the person in whom the
order vests the land as proprietor of the land; and
(b) may call in any certificates of title and grants for making those recordings, cancellations and
corrections.
(4)  Where the registered proprietor whose registration is to be cancelled under subsection (3) is –
(a) a legal owner referred to in section 13(2) of the Limitation Act 1974 ; or
(b) a trustee referred to in section 13(3) of that Act –
the registered proprietor’s right to recover the land is not extinguished, notwithstanding the registration
as proprietor of the applicant under this Division, or any person deriving title under the registered
proprietor otherwise than as a purchaser in good faith for value, so long as any other person has a right
under section 13 of that Act to recover the land.
(5)  The Recorder may, if the Recorder thinks fit, by reason of the imperfect nature of the evidence of
title or otherwise, make a vesting order under this section subject to the condition that the title vested is
to be a qualified title as mentioned in Division 4 of Part III .
138Y.   Avoidance of sub-minimum lots
(1)  In this section,
sub-minimum lot means a lot that does not have the qualities of a minimum lot as provided by
section 109 of the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 .
(2)  If the Recorder is not sure whether the granting of an application under this Division would result in
the continuation or creation of a sub-minimum lot, the Recorder may require the applicant to produce a
certificate from the relevant council –
(a) that the application would not result in the continuation or creation of a sub-minimum lot; or
(b) that the council consents to the application.
(3)  If the applicant fails to produce a certificate required under subsection (2) , the Recorder is not
required to proceed with the application.
Division 6 - Caveats against easements and title by possession
138Z.   Caveat forbidding granting of application under this Part
(1)  A person claiming an estate or interest in the land in respect of which an application under this Part
is made may, before the Recorder makes a vesting order in respect of the application, lodge a caveat with
the Recorder in an approved form forbidding the granting of the application.
(2)  The application of section 138E extends to a caveat under subsection (1) .
138ZA.   Restriction on renewal of caveats
(1)  A caveat under section 138Z that has lapsed or been removed under section 138E may not be
renewed by or on behalf of the same person in respect of the same interest unless an order to that effect
is made by the Supreme Court.
(2)  An office copy of an order made under subsection (1) is to be attached to the caveat to which it
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
79 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
refers.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
80 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART X - Amendment of the Register
139.   Correction of errors
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) and upon such evidence as appears to the Recorder sufficient, the Recorder
may correct errors or supply omissions in the Register or in any instrument or duplicate registered
dealing, and may call in any certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered dealing for that purpose.
(2)  When the Recorder makes an alteration pursuant to subsection (1)  –
(a) the Recorder shall, except as may be otherwise prescribed, authenticate the alteration and
record the date of the alteration, and preserve a record of the matter which has been altered;
(b) the alteration does not prejudice or affect a right accrued from a recording made in the
Register pursuant to a dealing lodged before the alteration; and
(c) subject to paragraph (b) , the Register, instrument, or duplicate registered dealing shall, as so
altered, have the same validity and effect as it would have had if the error or omission had not
occurred.
140.   Cancellation of superfluous recordings
The Recorder has power to cancel in such manner as the Recorder considers proper any recording in the
Register which the Recorder is satisfied does not affect or has ceased to affect the land to which the
recording purports to relate, and may for that purpose call in and cancel or correct any certificate of title,
grant, or duplicate registered dealing.
141.   Powers of Supreme Court to direct cancellation of folio or recording in certain cases
On the recovery of any land, estate, or interest, by any legal proceeding, from the person registered as
proprietor of the land, the Supreme Court in any case in which that proceeding is not expressly barred by
section 149 may direct the Recorder to cancel any folio of the Register, certificate of title, grant, or
registered dealing, or any recording in the Register relating to that land, and to substitute a new folio,
certificate of title, or recording, as the circumstances of the case may require, and the Recorder shall give
effect to that order.
142.   Rectification of boundaries, area or position of land
(1)  An interested person may apply to the Recorder for the taking of action or the making of an order
under subsection (14) .
(2)  The application is to be –
(a) in the approved form; and
(b) accompanied by the prescribed fee; and
(c) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Recorder requires.
(3)  On receipt of an application, or on the Recorder's own motion, the Recorder may give notice as
specified in subsections (5) and (6) if the Recorder is satisfied that the case can properly be dealt with
under this section, rather than by an application under section 138W(4) , and if –
(a) it appears to the Recorder that the boundary, area or position of the land described in a folio of
the Register –
(i) was established without the benefit of a survey or a survey that the Recorder considers
sufficient; and
(ii) differs from the actual boundary, area or position of the land as shown in the
supporting evidence accompanying the application or, if no better evidence is available,
as shown by the occupation of the land in good faith by the registered proprietor as being
the land described in that folio; or
(b) it appears to the Recorder that the description of land in that folio is based on erroneous or
imperfect information; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
81 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) it appears to the Recorder that the boundary, area, position or description of the land
contained in a forestry right –
(i) was established without the benefit of a survey or a survey that the Recorder considers
sufficient; and
(ii) differs from the actual boundary, area or position of the land contained in the forestry
right as shown in the supporting evidence accompanying the application or, if no better
evidence is available, as shown by the use of the land in good faith by the registered
proprietor as being the land contained in that forestry right; or
(d) it appears to the Recorder that the boundary, area, position or description of the land
contained in a forestry right is based on erroneous or imperfect information.
(4)  The Recorder may only act on the Recorder’s own motion if it appears to the Recorder that there is
no interested person to make the application.
(5)  If the Recorder gives notice under subsection (3) , the Recorder is to give the notice to the council of
the municipal area in which the land is situated and also –
(a) in the case of registered land which it is proposed to affect or which may be affected, to every
person appearing by the Register to have an interest in the land; and
(b) in the case of land, other than registered land, which it is proposed to affect or which may be
affected, to every person whom the Recorder has found by searching the Registry of Deeds to
have an interest in the land; and
(c) in the case of land subject to a highway which it is proposed to affect or which may be
affected, to the highway authority concerned.
(6)  The notice is to be accompanied by –
(a) in the case of notice given to a council and to a person referred to in subsection (5)(a) or (b) ,
a plan showing the extent to which the land is proposed to be or may be affected; and
(b) in the case of notice given to a highway authority, a plan showing the extent to which the
highway is proposed to be or may be affected.
(7)  If, after reasonable enquiry, an address for a person entitled to notice under subsection (5) cannot be
ascertained, the Recorder may give the notice and relevant plan to The Public Trustee.
(8)  On receipt of a notice under subsection (7) , The Public Trustee may –
(a) act on that person's behalf; and
(b) have a lien on that person's interest for expenses incurred in so acting.
(9)  A person who has received a notice under subsection (5) may lodge a written objection with the
Recorder within the period of not less than 21 days specified in the notice.
(10)  An objection must specify the grounds on which it is based.
(11)  If an objection has been lodged, the Recorder may conduct such investigations as the Recorder
considers necessary for the proper determination of the matter.
(12)  In conducting an investigation under subsection (11) , the Recorder –
(a) may hold a hearing for the purpose of receiving evidence and representations; and
(b) may require a person to attend a hearing; and
(c) at a hearing, may require a person –
(i) to make an oath or affirmation to answer relevant questions truthfully; and
(ii) to answer relevant questions; and
(d) at a hearing, may require a person to produce documents; and
(e) may retain documents produced at a hearing for such reasonable time as the Recorder thinks
appropriate for the purposes of the investigation and make copies of those, or parts of those,
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
82 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
documents; and
(f) is to proceed as expeditiously and with as little formality and technicality as is consistent with
the requirements of this Act and the proper investigation of the matter; and
(g) is not bound by the rules of evidence and may gather information in any way the Recorder
considers appropriate; and
(h) may, subject to this Act and the rules of natural justice, determine the procedures to be
followed; and
(i) may enter on relevant land for the purpose of the investigation at any reasonable time after
giving reasonable notice to the owner or occupier of that land.
(13)  A person must not, without reasonable excuse, refuse or fail to comply with a requirement made
under subsection (12) .
(14)  If no objection has been lodged within the specified time, or on the completion of an investigation,
the Recorder is to decide the matter and may do one or more of the following:
(a) amend any plan, folio of the Register, certificate of title, grant or registered dealing;
(b) order any person benefited by an amendment of a folio of the Register, certificate of title,
grant or registered dealing to pay compensation to any person adversely affected by this section;
(c) order payment of compensation out of the assurance fund;
(d) order the rectification of an instrument registered in the Registry of Deeds;
(e) order the execution and registration of an instrument;
(f) vary, and order the registration of, an unregistered easement;
(g) redefine the boundaries of a highway;
(h) amend a sealed plan of subdivision under the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 1993 if the amendment does not materially change the scheme of the
subdivision;
(i) determine that no further action is to be taken in respect of the boundaries, area, position or
description of the relevant land in a folio of the Register or a forestry right;
(j) make such order as to the costs of a person attending a hearing under subsection (12) as the
Recorder thinks fit;
(k) take any other action necessary or convenient to give effect to the Recorder’s decision.
(15)  The Recorder is to give a copy of the Recorder’s decision under subsection (14) to each person to
whom notice has been given under subsection (5) .
(16)  The Recorder may refuse to proceed or to proceed further under this section –
(a) if the Recorder considers that –
(i) a party ought to bring an action, suit or other proceeding; or
(ii) a party ought to apply for an order under section 138W(4) ; or
(iii) the Recorder cannot bring the matter to a satisfactory conclusion; or
(b) until a plan has been amended under Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 or an action, suit or other proceeding has been finalised.
(17)  A decision under subsection (14) may be registered in the Supreme Court and may be enforced,
subject to subsection (18) , as if it were a judgment of that Court.
(18)  A decision under subsection (14) is not to be acted on for 30 days and within that period a person
affected by the decision may appeal to the Supreme Court which may do any one or more of the
following:
(a) stay proceedings on the decision wholly or in part;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
83 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) quash or vary the decision;
(c) substitute for the decision any other decision that the Recorder was entitled to have made and
do any thing that the Recorder could do under that subsection;
(d) order the Recorder to amend any plan, folio of the Register, certificate of title, grant or
registered dealing or do any other thing that the Recorder was entitled to do under that
subsection.
(19)  The powers conferred by this section are in addition to, but are not substituted for, any powers of
correction, rectification or amendment conferred by any other provision of this Act.
(20)  A rectification or amendment made under this section is be taken to have been made prior to the
registration of the instrument that is so rectified or amended.
(21)  In this section –
interested person includes, but is not limited to –
(a) the registered proprietor, mortgagee, lessee or encumbrancee of the relevant land; and
(b) the council of the municipal area in which the relevant land is situated; and
(c) if the relevant land is a highway, the highway authority for that land; and
(d) the Crown in right of Tasmania; and
(e) any other person the Recorder considers to be an interested person.
143.   Effect of certain corrections
A correction or amendment of the Register or a registered dealing under this Act pursuant to section 9D
or section 17A of the Roads and Jetties Act 1935 or Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 shall be deemed to have been made before the registration of any
dealing that is –
(a) registered on a folio of the Register or registered dealing so corrected or amended; and
(b) existing at the time of the correction or amendment.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
84 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART XA - Approval of Plans
143A.   Recorder may specify format, &c., of certain plans
(1)  A plan deposited or lodged with the Recorder in accordance with this or any other Act shall comply
with the requirements of the Recorder, expressed generally or for the particular case, and the plan shall,
if the Recorder so requires, be made from an actual survey and certified as correct by a surveyor
registered and certified under the Surveyors Act 2002 .
(2)  Regulations may prescribe the manner in which a plan filed, deposited or lodged with the Recorder
is to be kept.
(3)  A plan or accompanying document may be deposited or lodged with the Recorder and kept wholly
or partly –
(a) on paper, on microfilm or in or on such other medium as may be approved by the Recorder;
or
(b) in such device for storing or processing information as may be so approved.
143B.   Recorder may require information, &c., in respect of plans, &c.
(1)  Where –
(a) in accordance with this or any other Act a plan is deposited or lodged with the Recorder; and
(b) the Recorder is of the opinion that the plan does not comply with the requirements of this or
any other Act –
the Recorder may by notice in writing require –
(c) the plan or any accompanying document to be amended; or
(d) additional information specified by the Recorder to be supplied –
within 90 days of the receipt of the notice or within such further period as the Recorder may allow.
(2)  Where the Recorder requires a person to amend a plan or accompanying document or to supply
additional information a prescribed fee is payable unless the Recorder is satisfied that –
(a) no error was made by anyone; or
(b) any error made was minor in nature.
(3)  If a person fails –
(a) to comply with a requirement specified in a notice; or
(b) to pay the prescribed fee –
within 90 days of the receipt of the notice or such further period as the Recorder may allow the Recorder
may reject the plan and any accompanying document.
143C.   Recorder may correct errors on plans
(1)  The Recorder may, of the Recorder's own motion, correct an error on a plan or accompanying
document deposited or lodged with the Recorder in accordance with this or any other Act.
(2)  The Recorder may, before correcting an error, give, to such people as the Recorder considers
appropriate, at least 7 days written notice of the Recorder's intention to correct the error.
(3)  A person may object to the correction proposed to be made by the Recorder before the end of the
period specified in the notice given under subsection (2) .
(3A)  An objection must be in writing and state the grounds on which it is based.
(4)  On receipt of an objection the Recorder may –
(a) decide not to make the proposed amendment; or
(b) amend the plan or accompanying document in accordance with the objection; or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
85 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(ba) amend the plan in accordance with the notice given under subsection (2) ; or
(c) reject the plan and any accompanying document.
(5)  If the Recorder amends a plan without the approval of the person who deposited or lodged it the
Recorder shall add to the plan a note to the effect that it has been amended by the Recorder.
143D.   Recorder may require substitute plans
(1)  If the Recorder is of the opinion that a plan or accompanying document deposited or lodged with the
Recorder in accordance with this or any other Act is, by reason of an amendment made in accordance
with this Part inconvenient for subsequent use, the Recorder may by written notice require a fresh plan
or accompanying document to the same effect as the original plan or accompanying document to be
deposited or lodged with the Recorder within 30 days or such further period as the Recorder may allow.
(2)  A fresh plan or accompanying document deposited or lodged with the Recorder has effect as if it had
been deposited or lodged in place of, and at the same time as, the original plan or accompanying
document.
(3)  If a person fails to comply with a requirement specified in a notice within the time specified in that
subsection the Recorder may reject the plan or accompanying document, or both such plan and
document.
143E.   Balance plans to be provided
(1)  Where a plan deposited or lodged with the Recorder in accordance with this Part relates to –
(a) part of the land included in a folio in the Register; or
(b) part of the land included in a title –
the Recorder may refuse to accept the plan unless there is also deposited or lodged with the Recorder a
plan of the remainder of the land included in that folio or title, as the case may be.
(2)  A reference in subsection (1) to a plan deposited or lodged with the Recorder includes a plan lodged
or deposited with the Recorder by or on behalf of the Crown.
143F.   Notice of rejection of plan to be given
If, in accordance with this Part, the Recorder rejects a plan or any accompanying document the Recorder
shall give notice accordingly and shall retain one-half of any prescribed fee paid when the plan or
accompanying document was deposited or lodged with the Recorder.
143G.   Giving of notice
(1)  Where the Recorder is required to give a written notice under this Part the notice is sufficiently
given for the purposes of this Part if it is given to –
(a) the person required to deposit or lodge the plan or accompanying document with the
Recorder; or
(b) the person who actually deposited or lodged the plan or accompanying document with the
Recorder; or
(c) a person who the Recorder is satisfied is authorized to receive the notice.
(2)  Where the Recorder gives notice under this Part in respect of a sealed plan, strata plan or a building
title plan the Recorder shall serve a copy of the notice on the municipal corporation that sealed the plan.
(3)  Where, in accordance with this or any other Act, a sealed plan, strata plan or a building title plan is
deposited or lodged with the Recorder and –
(a) the Recorder rejects the plan in accordance with this Part; or
(b) the Recorder is informed that the plan has been withdrawn –
the Recorder shall forward the plan to the council that sealed it so that the plan may be cancelled.
(4)  If a person upon whom a notice is to be served in accordance with this Part is a facsimile service
subscriber or a subscriber to any electronic transmission service the notice is sufficiently served if a copy
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
86 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of the notice is sent via that service to that person's service number.
143H.   Accompanying document defined
(1)  A reference in this Part to an accompanying document is a reference to any document that is
required by this or any other Act to be annexed to, attached to or deposited or lodged or presented with
any plan that is required to be deposited or lodged with the Recorder under this or any other Act.
(2)  When, in accordance with this Part, the Recorder rejects a plan the Recorder shall be taken to have
rejected any accompanying document deposited or lodged with that plan.
143I.   Power of Recorder to rearrange plans
(1)  The Recorder may rearrange parts of any plan held by the Recorder by creating a new plan
containing the whole or part of any other plan or plans or in such other manner as may appear to the
Recorder to be convenient.
(2)  In the exercise of the Recorder’s powers under subsection (1) , the Recorder must not create a new
plan so as to permit the subdivision of land contrary to the Local Government (Building and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
87 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART XI - Civil Rights and Remedies
Division 1 - General
144.   Proprietor if dissatisfied may summon Recorder to show cause
(1)  Subject to subsection (6) , if the Recorder –
(a) refuses to do an act which the Recorder is required or empowered to do under this or any
other Act; or
(b) gives a direction or makes an order upon the Recorder’s own motion or upon an application
while exercising the Recorder’s powers under this or any other Act –
a person who believes that person to be aggrieved by the refusal, direction, or order may require the
Recorder to state in writing the grounds for the Recorder’s refusal, direction, or order notwithstanding
that the Recorder has acted under a discretionary power.
(1A)  A requirement under subsection (1) must be lodged with the Recorder within 90 days after the
relevant refusal, direction or order is given by the Recorder, or such longer period as the Recorder
allows.
(2)  A person referred to in subsection (1) may proceed against the Recorder by summons in the
Supreme Court requiring the Recorder to justify the Recorder’s refusal, direction, or order, and the Court
may make such order as it thinks fit.
(3)  All expenses attendant upon any proceedings under this section shall be borne and paid by the
person referred to in subsection (2) , unless the Supreme Court certifies that there were no probable
grounds for the refusal, direction, or order referred to in subsection (1) .
(4)  On being served with a summons referred to in subsection (2) , the Recorder shall, if the land to
which the Recorder’s refusal, direction, or order relates –
(a) is registered land, record notice of the summons on the relevant folio of the Register; or
(b) is not registered land, register the summons in the Registry of Deeds.
(5)  When the Supreme Court makes an order pursuant to a summons under this section, the Recorder
shall cancel the recording of the summons or register the order in the Registry of Deeds, as the case may
require.
(6)  This section does not apply where the Recorder has acted pursuant to another Act that provides for
an appeal to the Supreme Court.
145.   Action by person claiming as beneficiary may be brought in name of trustee
(1)  Where a person is entitled to or interested in land as a trustee and is entitled to bring or defend any
action for the recovery of registered land, that person shall be bound to allow the person’s name to be
used as a plaintiff or defendant in an action for recovery of land by a beneficiary or person claiming an
estate or interest in the land.
(2)  Where subsection (1) applies, the person entitled or interested as a trustee is entitled to be
indemnified in like manner as a trustee would before the passing of the repealed Act have been entitled
to be indemnified in a similar case of the person’s name being used in any action or proceeding referred
to in subsection (1) by the person’s cestui que trust.
146.   Mortgagee, encumbrancee or lessor may obtain possession in certain cases
(1)  Where the term of a lease has expired or default is made in the payment of any money secured by a
mortgage or an encumbrance or payable under a lease for the time specified by this Act or in the
mortgage, encumbrance, or lease –
(a) a mortgagee as against a mortgagor, either before or after entering into the receipt of the rents
and profits of the mortgaged land or making any distress under the powers conferred by section
83 , either before or after a sale of the land is effected under the power of sale given or implied in
the mortgage, and either before or after obtaining an order for foreclosure pursuant to section 86 ;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
88 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) an encumbrancee as against an encumbrancer, either before or after entering into the receipt
of the rents and profits of the encumbered land or making any distress under the powers
conferred by section 83 , and either before or after any sale of the land is effected under the
power of sale given or implied in his encumbrance; or
(c) a lessor as against a lessee –
may without any formal demand or re-entry apply to the Supreme Court for an order for possession of
the premises to which the expiry of the term of the lease relates or in respect of which the default is
made.
(2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(3)  Service, on a lessee, mortgagor or encumbrancer, of an order under subsection (5) stands in lieu of –
(a) in the case of a lessor against a lessee, a demand and re-entry; and
(b) in the case of a mortgagee or encumbrancee against a mortgagor or encumbrancer, the notice
required to be given in such a case by this Act.
(4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(5)  If an application is made under subsection (1), then, on proof of –
(a) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(b) default having been made in payment of the money due under the mortgage, encumbrance, or
lease for the time specified by this Act, or otherwise provided in this section before the
proceedings were commenced;
(c) in the case of a lessor against a lessee –
(i) insufficient distress then being found to be on the premises to counteract the money
due; and
(ii) the plaintiff's power to enter; and
(d) the money due under the mortgage, encumbrance, or lease remaining unpaid –
the Supreme Court may order that possession of the premises mentioned in the application be given by
the mortgagor, encumbrancer, or lessee to the applicant on or before such day, not being less than 28
days from the day of hearing, as the Supreme Court thinks fit to specify, unless within that period all the
money due and costs are paid.
(6)  If an order referred to in subsection (5) is not obeyed and money due and costs are not paid, the
Supreme Court, subject to subsection (6A) , shall, at the instance of the applicant, on proof of the service
of that order, or that after diligent search made the party named in the order cannot be found, issue a writ
authorizing and requiring the Sheriff to give possession of the premises to the applicant.
(6A)  A writ is not to be issued under subsection (6) unless at least 60 days' written notice is given to the
tenant of the affected mortgagor.
(7)  Every writ referred to in subsection (6) shall be dated on the day next after the last day specified by
the Supreme Court in the order for the delivery of the possession of the premises, and shall continue in
force for not more than 3 months from that date.
(8)  In the case of a lessor against a lessee, the applicant shall, from the time of the execution of a writ
referred to in subsection (6) , except as otherwise provided in this Division, hold the premises discharged
of the tenancy.
147.   Right of mortgagee of lease not to be barred
Nothing in this Act extends to bar the right of a mortgagee or encumbrancee of a lease or any part of a
lease who is not in possession if that mortgagee or encumbrancee, within 180 days after the execution of
the writ referred to in section 146 , pays all rent in arrears and all costs and damages sustained by the
lessor and performs all the covenants and agreements which, on the part and on behalf of the first lessee,
are and ought to be performed.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
89 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
148.   Right of mortgagor or encumbrancer tendering principal, &c., and paying same to Treasurer to
obtain discharge of mortgage, &c.
(1)  If before the day specified in an order under section 146(5) as the day on which possession of the
premises to which the order relates is to be given the person having the right to redeem any mortgaged or
encumbered land to which the order relates pays to the mortgagee or encumbrancee or, in the case of the
mortgagee's or encumbrancee's refusal, tenders in court and pays to the Treasurer all the principal money
and interest due on the mortgage or encumbrance and costs, the money so paid to the mortgagee or
encumbrancee or to the Treasurer shall be deemed and taken to be in full satisfaction and discharge of
the mortgage or encumbrance.
(2)  The Recorder, on the receipt of the Treasurer accompanied by a certificate of the Supreme Court that
the money referred to in subsection (1) has been tendered and refused, shall record on the relevant folio
of the Register or registered dealing that the mortgage or encumbrance is discharged, and on that
recording the mortgaged or encumbered estate or interest shall cease to be charged with any money
secured by the mortgage or encumbrance.
149.   Registered proprietor protected against ejectment, except in certain cases
(1)  An action of ejectment or other action for the recovery of registered land shall not lie or be sustained
against the person registered as proprietor of the land under this Act, except in the following cases:
(a) a mortgagee as against a mortgagor in default;
(b) an encumbrancee as against an encumbrancer in default;
(c) a lessor as against a lessee in default;
(d) a person deprived of land by fraud as against the person registered as proprietor of the land
through fraud, or as against a person deriving, otherwise than as a transferee bona fide for value,
from or through a person so registered through fraud;
(e) a person deprived of or claiming land included in a folio of the Register evidencing the title to
other land, by misdescription of that other land or of its boundaries, as against the registered
proprietor of that other land, not being a transferee of that other land, or deriving from or through
a transferee of that other land bona fide for value;
(f) the registered proprietor of land which was first brought under this Act or the repealed Act as
against another registered proprietor, in a case where 2 or more folios of the Register subsist for
conflicting estates in the same land.
(2)  In any case not referred to in subsection (1) , the production of a certified copy of the relevant folio
of the Register, or, in the case of leasehold land where no folio of the Register exists for the leasehold
estate, a certified copy of the lease, shall be held in every court to be an absolute bar and estoppel to any
action referred to in subsection (1) against the person named in that folio as registered proprietor of the
land described in that folio or the lessee.
(3)  A certificate signed by the Recorder that no folio of the Register exists for the leasehold estate
created by a lease registered under this Act shall be received in every court as evidence of that fact.
(4)  For the purposes of subsection (2) , certified means certified by the Recorder or by some officer
acting on his behalf.
Division 2 - The assurance fund and compensation from that fund
150.   The assurance fund
(1)  The assurance fund created for the purposes of the repealed Act is continued for the purposes of this
Act.
(2)  All sums of money received by the Recorder under this Act as contributions to the assurance fund
shall be paid by the Recorder to the Treasurer who shall invest those sums together with all interest
accruing on those sums to augment the fund continued by subsection (1) .
(3)  If the assurance fund is at any time reduced by claims on the fund to an amount less than
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
90 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$2 000 000, the Governor may make regulations providing that any of the fees prescribed in Schedule 3
be increased as prescribed, the increase to be a contribution to the assurance fund, until such time as that
fund is increased to such sum as may be prescribed.
151.   Assurance fund not liable in certain cases
(1)  The assurance fund is not liable for compensation for loss, damage, or deprivation –
(a) occasioned by the breach by a registered proprietor of any trust, whether express, implied, or
constructive;
(b) where the same land has been included in two or more grants from the Crown;
(c) arising out of a matter –
(i) into which the Recorder or Deputy Recorder is exonerated from inquiry; or
(ii) in respect of which either of them is protected from liability –
by any enactment; or
(d) occasioned by the inclusion of land with other land in the same folio of the Register through
misdescription of boundaries or parcels; or
(e) arising from any failure of the Recorder to include an interest in a folio if the interest was not
revealed in a search of title relating to the relevant period provided by section 35 of the
Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1884 .
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1) , the assurance fund is liable for compensation
where a person deprived of land in the circumstances set out in subsection (1) (d) has obtained judgment
for compensation or damages against a person liable for compensation or damages under section 152 and
the latter person –
(a) is dead;
(b) cannot be found;
(c) has become bankrupt; or
(d) on the issue of a writ of fieri facias or warrant of execution to enforce the judgment, has been
certified by the person charged with the duty of enforcing the writ or warrant to be unable to pay
the full amount of the judgment.
(3)  In a case to which subsection (2) applies, the assurance fund is only liable for any money that the
person deprived of land has not recovered from the person against whom he has obtained judgment.
(4)  Notwithstanding paragraph (e) of subsection (1) , the assurance fund is liable for compensation for
loss, damage or deprivation arising from any failure of the Recorder to include an interest in a folio if the
interest was not revealed in a search of title relating to the relevant period referred to in that paragraph
where the land was subject to this Act when the person obtained the interest in the land and where –
(a) the interest would not have come to the notice of that person if, at the time the person
acquired that interest, the person as a prudent purchaser had inspected the land; or
(b) at the time compensation is claimed –
(i) the interest, if it is an easement, could not be removed by the Recorder on an
application by the registered proprietor under section 108 ; or
(ii) in any other case, it could not be removed by the appropriate tribunal on an
application by the registered proprietor under section 84C of the Conveyancing and Law
of Property Act 1884 .
152.   Compensation for party deprived of land
(1)  Subject to section 42 , a person deprived of land or of any estate or interest in land –
(a) in consequence of fraud;
(b) through the bringing of that land under this Act;
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
91 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) by the registration of another person as proprietor of that land, estate, or interest; or
(d) in consequence of any error, omission, or misdescription in the Register –
may bring an action for the recovery of damages.
(2)  An action referred to in subsection (1) shall –
(a) in any case in which the land has been included in 2 or more grants, be brought against such
person as the Governor may appoint as nominal defendant; or
(b) in any other case, subject to the provisions of subsections (3) , (4) , (5) , (6) , (7) , and (8) , be
brought against the person –
(i) on whose application that land was brought under this Act;
(ii) on whose application the erroneous registration was made; or
(iii) who acquired title to the estate or interest in question through fraud, error, omission,
or misdescription.
(3)  Where a person is deprived of land because it is brought under this Act pursuant to Division 3 of
Part III and the title registered on the bringing of the land under this Act is not a qualified title subject to
a general caution, the person who is first registered as proprietor of the land shall be regarded as the
person on whose application the land was brought under this Act.
(4)  Where a person is deprived of land by the cancellation of a caution pursuant to section 21 (6) , the
person who is the registered proprietor of the land at the time the caution is cancelled shall be regarded
as the person on whose application the land was brought under this Act.
(5)  Where a person is deprived of land by the lapsing of a caution pursuant to section 25 , that person
shall be deemed to have been deprived of land through the bringing of land under this Act, and the
person who is the registered proprietor at the time the caution lapses shall be regarded as the person on
whose application the land was brought under this Act.
(6)  In every case in which the fraud, error, omission, or misdescription occurs upon a transfer for value,
the transferor receiving the consideration shall be regarded as the person on whose application the
certificate of title, if any, was issued to the transferee.
(7)  Subject to section 127 , except in the case of fraud or of error occasioned by an omission,
misrepresentation, or misdescription in the person’s application or an instrument executed by the person,
the person on whose application the land was brought under this Act or the erroneous registration was
made, shall, on the transfer of the land in good faith for value, cease to be liable for the payment of any
damages which might have been recovered from the person under this section.
(8)  In a case where a person referred to in subsection (7)  –
(a) ceases to be liable for the payment of damages as provided in that subsection;
(b) is dead or bankrupt; or
(c) cannot be found –
the damages referred to in that subsection, with costs of action, may be recovered out of the assurance
fund by action against the Recorder as nominal defendant.
(9)  In estimating damages referred to in subsection (7) , the value of all buildings and other
improvements erected or made subsequent to the deprivation shall be excluded unless they were erected
or made in good faith by the claimant or by some person through whom the claimant claims before the
claimant or that person, as the case may be, was aware of any defect in the title to the land.
(10)  For the purposes of this section, a person who, but for the fraud or other act of any of the persons
mentioned in subsection (2) , might have been possessed of any land, estate, or interest, or have been
registered proprietor of any land, estate, or interest, shall be deemed to have been deprived of the land,
estate, or interest.
153.   When action may lie against Recorder as nominal defendant
(1)  Subject to this Act, a person sustaining loss or damage –
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
92 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) through an omission, mistake, or misfeasance of the Recorder or any of the Recorder’s
officers in the execution of their duties under this Act; or
(b) by the registration of any other person as proprietor of land (except where that other person
was registered as proprietor pursuant to section 138D or section 138X ) or by an error, omission,
or misdescription in the Register, and –
(i) who is barred by section 149 from bringing an action of ejectment or other action for
the recovery of land or an estate or interest in land; or
(ii) to whose claim the remedy by action for damages pursuant to section 152 is
inapplicable –
may bring an action against the Recorder as nominal defendant for recovery of damages.
(2)  In estimating damages referred to in subsection (1) , the value of buildings and other improvements
erected or made subsequent to the loss or deprivation shall be excluded unless they were erected or made
in good faith by the claimant or by some person through whom the claimant claims before the claimant
or that person, as the case may be, was aware of any defect in the title to the land.
154.   Date of deprivation in certain cases
Where a person is deprived of land by the registration of another person as proprietor pursuant to a
vesting order under section 138D or section 138X , the date of deprivation shall, for the purpose of
calculating the damages to which the first-mentioned person is entitled, be deemed to be –
(a) in the case of a vesting order under section 138X , the date on which the first-mentioned
person or the first-mentioned person’s predecessors in title lost possession of the land; and
(b) in the case of a vesting order under section 138D , the date mentioned in paragraph (a) or the
date of the sale pursuant to which the vesting order was made, whichever is the earlier.
155.   Person sustaining loss may apply for compensation
(1)  A person sustaining loss or damage in a case in which the person is entitled to bring an action to
recover damages against the Recorder as nominal defendant may, before commencing proceedings,
make application in writing to the Recorder for compensation, and that application shall be supported by
statutory declaration.
(2)  If the Recorder admits the claim, or any part of the claim, and the Minister certifies the claim, or part
of the claim, as so admitted –
(a) in a case where the claim, or part or the claim, that is so admitted and certified is less than
$10 000, the Minister may, in the Minister’s discretion, issue a warrant to the Treasurer for
payment of the amount so certified out of the assurance fund; or
(b) in a case where the claim, or part of the claim, that is so admitted and certified is $10 000 or
more, the Governor may, in the Governor’s discretion, issue a warrant to the Treasurer for
payment of the amount so certified out of the assurance fund.
(3)  The Treasurer is to pay the amount so certified in accordance with a warrant issued under
subsection (2) .
156.   Notice of action
In a case in which an action for recovery of damages is permitted to be brought against the Recorder as
nominal defendant as provided in this Division, notice in writing of that action and of the cause of that
action shall be served on the nominal defendant at least 30 days before the commencement of that action.
157.   Results of action
(1)  If in an action under this Division judgment is given in favour of the nominal defendant, or if the
plaintiff discontinues or is non-suited, the plaintiff shall pay all costs of defending the action, and the
costs when taxed may be levied by execution in the name of the nominal defendant.
(2)  If in an action under this Division the plaintiff recovers final judgment against the Recorder as
nominal defendant, the Supreme Court shall certify the fact of the judgment and the amount of damages
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
93 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and costs recovered, and the amount of the damages and costs shall be paid to the person recovering the
same, and shall be charged to the account of the assurance fund.
(3)  If the balance to the credit of the assurance fund is inadequate to pay the amount specified, such sum
as may be necessary for that purpose shall be paid out of the Public Account, which to the necessary
extent is appropriated accordingly, and the amount so advanced shall be repaid from the assurance fund
as it accrues.
158.   Limitation of actions
(1)  An action under section 152 or section 153 shall be deemed to be an action referred to in section 4
(1) (d) of the Limitation Act 1974 .
(2)  The plaintiff in an action referred to in subsection (1) , at whatever time it may be brought, or the
plaintiff in an action for the recovery of land, shall be non-suited in any case in which the deprivation
complained of may have been occasioned through the bringing of land under this Act or the making of a
vesting order under section 138D or section 138X , if it appears to the court before which the action is
tried that the plaintiff, or the person through whom the plaintiff claims title, had notice or was aware that
application had been made to bring the land under this Act or for a vesting order under section 138D or
section 138X , and had, wilfully or collusively, omitted to lodge a caveat forbidding it, or had allowed
that caveat to lapse.
159.   Moneys paid out of assurance fund may be recovered
(1)  An amount paid out of the assurance fund on account of a person shall be deemed to be a debt due
by that person to the Recorder and may be recovered accordingly.
(2)  Where an amount has been paid out of the assurance fund on account of a person who has real or
personal estate in this State and who cannot be found in this State, a court of competent jurisdiction may,
upon the application of the Recorder and upon the production of a certificate signed by the Treasurer
certifying that the amount has been paid in satisfaction of a judgment against the Recorder as nominal
defendant, allow the Recorder to enter judgment against that person for the amount so paid out of the
assurance fund together with the costs of the application.
(3)  A judgment referred to in subsection (2) is final, and execution may issue immediately.
(4)  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Limitation Act 1974 , if a person referred to in subsection
(2) has not left real or personal estate in this State sufficient to satisfy the amount for which execution
may have been issued under this section, the Recorder may recover that amount, or the unrecovered
balance of the amount, by action against that person whenever he may be found.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
94 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART XII - General Powers, Duties, and Immunities of Recorder
160.   General powers of Recorder
(1)  The Recorder may require a person who has custody, possession, or control of any instrument
relating to land which is the subject of a dealing lodged with the Recorder under this or any other Act, or
relating to the title to land, to produce that instrument, and the Recorder may retain an instrument,
whether produced pursuant to this subsection or otherwise, until it is no longer required for action in
connection with a dealing lodged with the Recorder or in connection with the bringing of land under this
Act; and if that person refuses or neglects to produce that instrument the person is guilty of an offence
and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding 5 penalty units.
(2)  The Recorder may conduct an inquiry concerning any land, title to land, or instrument affecting or
relating to land which is the subject of a dealing or application lodged with the Recorder under this or
any other Act; and, if an instrument which the Recorder has required under subsection (1) is withheld, or
if a person summoned to attend an inquiry under this subsection fails to attend or refuses or neglects to
give an explanation or information which the person is required to give at the inquiry, the Recorder is not
bound to proceed with the application or register the dealing under this or any other Act.
(3)  The Recorder may record a caveat on behalf of a person under disability (within the meaning of the
Limitation Act 1974 ), or on behalf of the Crown, to prohibit the transfer or dealing with land belonging
or supposed to belong to such a person or the Crown, and also to prohibit the dealing with land where it
appears to the Recorder that an error has been made by misdescription of that land, or otherwise on a
folio of the Register or any certificate of title or other instrument, or for the prevention of fraud or
improper dealing, and sections 135 and 137 apply where the Recorder records a caveat pursuant to this
subsection.
(4)  The Recorder may, on such evidence as appears to the Recorder to be sufficient, record in the
Register any change in the name of a registered proprietor or a notification of the full and correct name
of a registered proprietor if the Recorder is satisfied that that name differs from the name of that
proprietor as set forth in the Register.
(5)  Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the Recorder may at the Recorder’s discretion dispense with
the production to the Recorder of any instrument or document, or the duplicate of any instrument or
document, or the supply of any information, or any advertisement or notice.
(6)  Section 8 and Part 3 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1995 apply to an inquiry or hearing that the
Recorder is by this or any other Act authorized or required to make or hold as if –
(a) the Recorder were a Commission established under section 4 of the Commissions of Inquiry
Act 1995 ; and
(b) the matter the subject of the inquiry or hearing were the matter into which that Commission
had been directed to inquire under that Act.
(7)  If the Recorder is satisfied that the inquiry or hearing was occasioned by frivolous or vexatious
conduct by a party to the inquiry or hearing, the Recorder may order that party to pay the reasonable
costs of the inquiry or hearing.
(8)  An order made under subsection (7) may be enforced as if it were a judgment made by a competent
court of summary jurisdiction.
160A.   Power of Recorder to issue directions
(1)  In this section –
lodgement includes lodging, depositing, presenting, processing, sending, giving or filing –
(a) a dealing, instrument or document in accordance with section 48A , 48B or 48C ; and
(b) electronically in accordance with section 7 of the Electronic Conveyancing National
Law (Tasmania); and
(c) in an electronic form; and
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
95 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(d) in an electronic manner; and
(e) in person; and
(f) by post;
published includes publication by all or any of the following means:
(a) by means of a public website maintained by or on behalf of the Department;
(b) by means of a publication issued by the Recorder;
(c) by any other means that the Recorder considers appropriate in the circumstances;
working day means any day other than –
(a) a Saturday; or
(b) a Sunday; or
(c) a statutory holiday as defined in the Statutory Holidays Act 2000 .
(2)  The Recorder may issue directions specifying the requirements and procedures (whether electronic
requirements and procedures or paper requirements and procedures, or both electronic and paper
requirements and procedures) to be followed for, or in connection with, the preparation, and the
lodgement for registration, of applications, dealings, instruments, and other documents, for the purposes
of this Act.
(3)  Without limiting subsection (2) , the Recorder may issue directions specifying the requirements, and
the procedures, to be followed in relation to any one or more of the following:
(a) verification of identity and authority, including –
(i) the standards to which identity and authority are to be verified; and
(ii) the classes of persons in respect of whom identity and authority are to be verified; and
(iii) the classes of documents in relation to which verification of identity and authority
requirements apply; and
(iv) the classes of persons who may undertake verification of identity and authority; and
(v) any supporting evidence or retention requirements;
(b) agent or client authorizations, including –
(i) the form of an agent or client authorization; and
(ii) the classes of documents to which an agent or client authorization applies; and
(iii) any supporting evidence or retention requirements;
(c) the certification of matters relating to applications, dealings, instruments, and other
documents, including –
(i) the form of the certification; and
(ii) the classes of persons who may certify those matters; and
(iii) any supporting evidence and retention requirements;
(d) the retention of supporting or authenticating documents generally, including the period of
retention;
(e) the obligations of persons to produce to the Recorder any supporting or authenticating
documents, including the period for which the Recorder may retain those documents;
(f) the classes of applications, dealings, instruments, and other documents, that may be lodged
electronically;
(g) the obligations of persons preparing or lodging applications, dealings, instruments, and other
documents (including warranties and representations);
(h) the classes of applications, dealings, instruments, and other documents, which are not
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
96 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
required to be witnessed for the purposes of this Act (including providing for certification,
authentication or other alternatives to execution or attestation);
(i) the persons authorized under this Act to execute or attest any applications, dealings,
instruments, and other documents, (including providing for certification, authentication or other
alternatives to execution or attestation);
(j) the ways in which consent may be given to the registration of applications, dealings,
instruments, and other documents;
(k) the method for the payment of any fees required to be paid for the purposes of this Act;
(l) the form and the manner in which a certificate of title, if any, may be lodged, issued, called in,
prepared, delivered up, produced, kept, registered or otherwise dealt with for the purposes of this
Act (including dispensing with the production of a certificate of title, if any);
(m) the form and the manner in which the registration of applications, dealings, instruments, and
other documents, may be confirmed.
(4)  The Recorder may, at any time, by notice revoke, or amend, a direction issued under subsection (2) .
(5)  A direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2) , and a notice of the revocation or
amendment of any such direction under subsection (4) , must –
(a) specify the date on which the direction, or the revocation or amendment of the direction, is to
take effect; and
(b) specify the period for which the direction is in effect or that the direction is in effect
indefinitely; and
(c) be in writing.
(6)  The Recorder is to cause each direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2) , and each
revocation or amendment of any such direction under subsection (4) , to be published –
(a) at least 20 working days before the date on which the direction, or the revocation or
amendment of the direction, is specified to take effect in accordance with subsection (5)(a) ; or
(b) less than 20 working days before the date on which the direction, or the revocation or
amendment of the direction, is specified to take effect in accordance with subsection (5)(a) , if
the Recorder is satisfied that the direction, or the amendment or revocation, is urgent.
(7)  A person must comply with a direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2) .
(8)  The Recorder may refuse to register an application, dealing, instrument, or other document, that does
not comply with a direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2) .
(9)  Despite subsection (8) , if the Recorder considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances, the
Recorder may register an application, dealing, instrument, or other document, that does not comply with
a direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2) .
(10)  A direction issued by the Recorder under subsection (2)  –
(a) is not a statutory rule within the meaning of the Rules Publication Act 1953 ; and
(b) is not subordinate legislation for the purposes of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
(11)  A notice made by the Recorder under subsection (4)  –
(a) is not a statutory rule within the meaning of the Rules Publication Act 1953 ; and
(b) is not subordinate legislation for the purposes of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
161.   Recorder may state case for Supreme Court
(1)  The Recorder may, whenever any question arises with regard to the performance of any of the duties
or the exercise of any of the functions by this or any other Act conferred or imposed upon the Recorder,
state a case for the opinion of the Supreme Court.
(2)  Where a case has been stated for the opinion of the Supreme Court in accordance with subsection (1)
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
97 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
, the Supreme Court may give judgment on the case, and that judgment is binding on the Recorder.
162.   Recorder may require map to be deposited
(1)  The Recorder may require the proprietor applying under section 11 to have land brought under this
Act, applying under section 108 for the release or partial release of an easement or profit à prendre, or
desiring to transfer or otherwise deal with land, to deposit with the Recorder a map or plan of the land
complying with the requirements of the Recorder, expressed generally or for the particular case, and the
map or plan shall, if the Recorder so requires, be made from an actual survey and certified as correct by
a surveyor registered and certificated under the Surveyors Act 2002 .
(2)  If a proprietor referred to in subsection (1) neglects or refuses to comply with the Recorder's
requirements, the Recorder may refuse to proceed with the bringing of the land under this Act or with
the registration of the transfer or other dealing.
163.   Power of Recorder to call in certificate of title, &c., in certain cases
(1)  Where it appears to the satisfaction of the Recorder that –
(a) a certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered dealing has been issued in error or contains
a misdescription of land or of boundaries;
(b) a recording has been made in error on a certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered
dealing;
(c) a certificate of title, grant, or recording in the Register has been fraudulently or wrongfully
obtained;
(d) a certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered dealing is fraudulently or wrongfully
retained; or
(e) it is necessary for the Recorder to have the certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered
dealing for the purpose of registering a dealing, or of cancelling, correcting, or otherwise dealing
with the certificate, grant, or duplicate, or for the purpose of inspection in case of the loss,
destruction, or obliteration of a folio of the Register or registered dealing –
or the Recorder is, by this or any other Act, required or authorized to call in, or require a person to
produce to the Recorder, a certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered dealing, the Recorder may
summon the person to whom that certificate, grant, or duplicate has been so issued, or by whom it has
been so obtained or is retained, or who has the custody, possession, or control of it, to deliver up that
certificate, grant, or duplicate for the purpose of registration, or of being cancelled, corrected, or
otherwise dealt with, or inspected, as the case may require.
(2)  Where a person referred to in subsection (1) refuses or neglects to comply with a summons referred
to in that subsection, the Recorder may apply to a judge to issue a summons for that person to appear
before the Supreme Court and show cause why the certificate, grant, or duplicate referred to in that
subsection should not be delivered up for the purpose of registration, or to be cancelled, corrected, or
otherwise dealt with, or inspected, as mentioned in that subsection.
(3)  Where a person referred to in subsection (1)  –
(a) cannot be found within a reasonable time, so that the summons referred to in that subsection
cannot be served upon the person; or
(b) is residing out of the State and refuses or neglects to comply with a summons referred to in
that subsection –
the Recorder may, if in the Recorder’s opinion the circumstances of the case require it, act as authorized
by section 35 or section 160 (5) .
(4)  If a person referred to in subsection (1) , when served with a summons referred to in subsection (2) ,
neglects or refuses to attend before the Supreme Court at the time appointed in the summons, the Court
may issue a warrant authorizing and directing the person so summoned to be arrested and brought before
the Court for examination.
164.   Powers of Court and Recorder
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
98 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  On the appearance before the Supreme Court of any person summoned or brought up by virtue of a
warrant under section 163 , the Court may examine that person on oath, and, where the Court considers
it necessary, may order that person to deliver up the certificate of title, grant, or duplicate registered
dealing in accordance with section 163 , and on the refusal or neglect by that person to deliver it up
pursuant to that order may commit that person to prison.
(2)  Where a person –
(a) who has been summoned pursuant to section 163 (2) cannot be found, so that the person
cannot be arrested and brought before the Court for examination under section 163 (4) ; or
(b) has been committed to prison –
the Recorder may, if in the Recorder’s opinion the circumstances of the case require it, act as authorized
by section 35 or section 160 (5) .
165.   Protection of Recorder
(1)  The Recorder, in registering a dealing or in bringing land under this Act –
(a) need not make any inquiry not required of;
(b) is not bound by any notice that would not bind; and
(c) has the same protection as if the Recorder were –
a purchaser as defined in the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1884 .
(2)  Where a person registered as the personal representative of a deceased proprietor deals with land, or
an estate or interest in land, which has devolved upon the person under the Administration and Probate
Act 1935 by way of –
(a) assent;
(b) mortgage;
(c) lease; or
(d) transfer for value to a purchaser who does not appear on the face of the transfer to be a
personal representative, or trustee of the will, of the deceased proprietor, or the spouse or child of
a personal representative, or trustee of the will, of a deceased proprietor –
the Recorder shall not be concerned to consider, or to call for any information concerning, the reason
why the assent, mortgage, lease, or transfer is made, or the terms of the will, and, whether the Recorder
has notice or not of its contents, the Recorder is entitled to assume that the personal representative is
acting correctly and within the personal representative’s powers.
(3)  The Recorder is not individually, nor is any person acting under the Recorder’s authority, liable to
any action or proceeding for or in respect of any act or matter in good faith done, or omitted to be done,
in the exercise or supposed exercise of the powers of this Act.
166.   Payment of money received by Recorder to persons entitled under this Act
(1)  Any money received by the Recorder or by the Treasurer, in trust or otherwise, on account of
absentee mortgagees or other persons entitled under this Act, shall be paid into the Public Account.
(2)  Any money paid into the Public Account pursuant to subsection (1) shall, on the receipt of a
requisition from the Recorder and with the approval of the Treasurer, be paid to any person entitled to
that money under this Act.
(3)  The Public Account is, by force of this subsection, appropriated to such extent as may be necessary
to give effect to subsection (2) .
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
99 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART XIII - Miscellaneous
167.   Jurisdiction in relation to offences
Prosecutions for offences under this Act may be instituted by the Attorney-General or the Recorder and
no other person.
168.   Service, &c., of notices
(1)  A notice that is required or authorized by this Act to be given to or served on a person may be given
to or served on that person –
(a) by posting it as prescribed to the person’s address for service (within the meaning of this
section) or to the person’s last-known place of abode or business; or
(b) by leaving it at the person’s address for service (within the meaning of this section) or at the
person’s last-known place of abode or business; or
(c) by sending it by way of facsimile transmission to a service operated or used by the person; or
(d) by any other form of transmission of messages electronically where the Recorder is satisfied
that the person to be notified will receive the notice; or
(e) by a method of postal service where evidence may be provided that the notice has been
received by the person to be notified.
(2)  The address of a person, set forth in any instrument by which that person becomes a registered
proprietor or in a caveat lodged by or on behalf of that person, or in a valuation roll prepared pursuant to
the Valuation of Land Act 2001 , or in an electoral roll kept pursuant to the Electoral Act 2004 , may, for
the purposes of this section, be treated as his address for service.
(3)  On being notified in writing by a registered proprietor or a caveator of any change of the proprietor's
or caveator's address, the Recorder shall alter that address as set forth in any instrument specified by the
proprietor (being an instrument by which the proprietor became a registered proprietor) or in the caveat,
or otherwise record the change of address as prescribed.
(3A)  Where notice is required to be given under this Act before a dealing, instrument or other document
is deposited or lodged with the Recorder and the Recorder is of opinion that the notice was inaccurate or
insufficient, the Recorder may require that a supplementary notice be given in accordance with this Act.
(4)  Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this section, if for any special reason the
Recorder thinks it desirable to do so the Recorder may direct any notice to be given or served in such
manner as the Recorder may specify, either in addition to, or in substitution for, the mode of giving or
serving notice prescribed in those provisions.
(4A)  Where –
(a) a person is required to notify interested persons of an application under this Act; and
(b) the notice is not given within the required time –
the Recorder may, if it appears that it would be harsh and unconscionable to refuse the
application –
(c) extend the time for giving the notice; and
(d) require the applicant to give further notice in such manner as the Recorder may direct; and
(e) reinstate any objection or caveat lodged in respect of the application.
(5)  Notwithstanding anything in this Act, if for any special reason the Recorder thinks it desirable to do
so, the Recorder may dispense with a requirement to advertise or to give notice under this Act.
(6)  If the Recorder considers it desirable in the interests of procedural fairness and the administration of
this Act, the Recorder may require a person depositing or lodging an application, dealing, instrument or
other document to do one or more of the following:
(a) advertise in one or more newspapers published and circulating in Tasmania, as determined by
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
100 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the Recorder;
(b) give notice to a person the Recorder considers to have an interest in the application, dealing,
instrument or other document;
(c) post notice of the application, dealing, instrument or other document on the relevant land.
169.   
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
169A.   Power of Recorder to approve forms
(1)  The Recorder may at any time approve forms for use under this Act, the Powers of Attorney Act
2000 , the Public Trusts Act 1882 , the Registration of Deeds Act 1935 , the Strata Titles Act 1998 and
any other law which requires documents to be lodged with the Recorder.
(2)  An approval of a form does not have effect until 14 days after notice of the approval is given and
published in accordance with subsection (3) .
(3)  Where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (1)  –
(a) the Recorder must give written notification of the approval to the Law Society of Tasmania
and cause notice of the approval to be published –
(i) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(ii) in each daily newspaper circulating generally in Tasmania with a statement that any
new or amended form is available from the Land Titles Office; and
(iii) in such other manner as the Recorder thinks fit; and
(b) the Recorder may supply the form bearing the seal of office used under section 6 , free of
charge or at a moderate charge; and
(c) the Recorder may license persons to print and sell the form bearing the seal of office used
under section 6 ; and
(d) any previous approval under subsection (1) of a form for the same purpose ceases to have any
force or effect.
(4)  Where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (1) , the Recorder may register, record or
grant, as the case may be, any dealing or instrument that is lodged within a period of 12 months after the
approval and takes the form required immediately before the approval.
(5)  The Recorder may, on receipt of the prescribed fee –
(a) approve a form that has been prepared by a person with the object of selling it for use by
other persons; and
(b) license that person to print and sell the form being the seal of office used under section 6 .
(6)  Subject to subsection (11) , where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (5) , any previous
approval under that subsection of a form for the same purposes ceases to have any force or effect.
(7)  Where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (5) , the Recorder may register, record or
grant, as the case may be, any dealing or instrument that is lodged within a period of 12 months after the
approval and takes the form required immediately before the approval.
(8)  The Recorder may, on receipt of the prescribed fee –
(a) approve a form under subsection (1) ; and
(b) authorise a person to print the form, bearing the seal of office used under section 6 , for use
by that person.
(9)  Subject to subsection (11) , where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (8) for use by a
person, any previous approval under that subsection of a form for use by that person for the same
purpose ceases to have effect.
(10)  Where the Recorder approves a form under subsection (8) , the Recorder may register, record or
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
101 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
grant, as the case may be, any dealing or instrument that is lodged within the period of 12 months after
the approval and takes the form required immediately before the approval.
(11)  A form approved under subsection (1) , (5) or (8) is to specify –
(a) the full names of the parties to the dealing to which the form relates; and
(b) a description of the land affected by the dealing; and
(c) the nature of the transaction to be effected by the dealing –
and on any such approval, the Recorder may register, record or grant, as the case may be –
(d) any dealing or instrument that the Recorder is satisfied –
(i) takes the form required by this Act at the time of its execution; or
(ii) is in accordance with a form previously approved under this section; or
(e) any dealing or instrument that contains departures, otherwise than in matters of substance,
from an approved form but is sealed with the seal of office used under section 6 as if it were in an
approved form.
169B.   False representation as to approved forms
(1)  If a person falsely represents that a form has been approved for use as mentioned in section 169A ,
that person must indemnify any other person who suffers loss, damage or deprivation in relying on the
form.
(2)  An indemnity under subsection (1) does not create any right to compensation from the assurance
fund.
169C.   Recording of common provisions
(1)  A person may lodge with the Recorder a memorandum in the approved form containing one or more
provisions which are intended for inclusion in dealings and instruments to be lodged subsequently for
registration.
(2)  The Recorder may retain a memorandum lodged under subsection (1) .
(3)  The Recorder may prepare and retain a memorandum containing any provisions which seem
appropriate for inclusion in dealings and instruments to be lodged subsequently for registration.
(4)  A memorandum retained by the Recorder pursuant to this section is to be taken, for the purposes of
section 36 , to be part of the Register.
169D.   Incorporation of common provisions
A dealing or instrument lodged with the Recorder may incorporate a common provision lodged with the
Recorder by reference to the provision in a way sufficient to identify it clearly.
169E.   Prescribed fees
(1)  Subject to section 169EA , the fees prescribed in Schedule 3 are payable under this Act for the
matters to which they respectively relate.
(2)  A prescribed fee –
(a) is to be paid to the Recorder or an agent appointed by the Recorder; and
(b) may be paid in any manner approved by the Recorder.
(3)  A person may, if so authorised by the Recorder or an agent appointed by the Recorder for the
purpose, pay a prescribed fee after the transaction to which it relates.
169EA.   Exemptions from fees
(1)  A fee is not payable under this Act for –
(a) a dealing for the purposes of, or in accordance with –
(i) an agreement, deed or other instrument referred to in section 90(1) of the Family Law
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
102 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Act 1975 of the Commonwealth; or
(ii) an order made under the Relationships Act 2003 or a prescribed agreement; or
(b) a deed or other instrument executed by a person for the purposes of, or in accordance with, an
order or financial agreement made under Part VIIIA of the Family Law Act 1975 of the
Commonwealth.
(2)  In this section –
prescribed agreement means an agreement that is –
(a) a personal relationship agreement or separation agreement within the meaning of the
Relationships Act 2003 ; and
(b) in accordance with paragraphs (b) , (c) , (d) and (e) of section 62(1) of that Act .
169F.   Validation
No regulation that prescribed a fee for the purposes of this Act before the commencement of the
Registration and Related Fees Act 2001 is to be taken as having ever been invalid by reason only of the
amount of the fee so prescribed.
170.   Regulations
(1)  The Governor may make regulations for the purposes of this Act.
(2)  Without limiting subsection (1) , the regulations may –
(a) prescribe the manner in which dealings are to be lodged for registration and the circumstances
in which the Recorder may refuse to accept dealings for lodgement; and
(b) provide for the conduct of official searches of the Register, including provision for
compensation from the assurance fund for a person suffering loss or damage arising from an
error in an official search and exonerating a legal practitioner or other person in respect of loss
that may arise from an error in an official search; and
(c) require any approved form or other form approved by the Recorder to be in the form of, or to
have the same effect as, a statutory declaration; and
(d) require the substantiation by statutory declaration of all or any information given in an
approved form which is not in the form of a statutory declaration; and
(e) provide for the meaning to be attached to a provision specified in a particular form in a
dealing; and
(f) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(g) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(h) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  
(i) prescribe the fees, charges and expenses to be paid by persons licensed to print and sell
approved forms, whether fixed by reference to the period of the licence, the number of forms
sold or to be sold, or otherwise; and
(j) provide for the approval and sealing of forms for use under this Act, including fees to be paid
for the approval and sealing.
(3)  Subsection (2) (e) does not apply to a conveyance or other deed referred to in section 75A of the
Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1884 so far as the conveyance or deed contains the short
provisions specified in Schedule 6 to that Act.
170A.   Combination of forms
(1)  An approved form may be combined with, or may be lodged simultaneously with, a form approved
by the Recorder for the purposes of section 121 of the Local Government Act 1993 .
(2)  If a form under section 121 of the Local Government Act 1993 does not comply with that Act, the
dealing to which it relates is taken to be not in accordance with this Act.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
103 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3)  The Recorder may, of the Recorder’s own motion, correct a patent error in a form under section 121
of the Local Government Act 1993 by notation in the margin of the form and, after an error is so
corrected, the dealing has the same validity as if the error had not been made.
170B.   Duty of Recorder to transmit certain information
(1)  The Recorder must, as soon as practicable after receiving a notice under section 121 of the Local
Government Act 1993 in relation to land within a municipal area, transmit details of the notice to the
general manager of the council in relation to the municipal area.
(2)  The Recorder must provide to the Commissioner of State Revenue –
(a) the information, as specified in a notice received by the Recorder under section 121 of the
Local Government Act 1993 ; and
(b) the information, about the dealing to which the notice relates –
that the Commissioner of State Revenue requires for the purposes of any Act related to taxation and
requests the Recorder to provide to the Commissioner of State Revenue.
(3)  The Recorder must provide to the Valuer-General –
(a) the information, as specified in a notice received by the Recorder under section 121 of the
Local Government Act 1993 ; and
(b) the information, about the dealing to which the notice relates –
that the Valuer-General requires for the purposes of the Valuation of Land Act 2001 and requests the
Recorder to provide to the Valuer-General.
171.   
The amendments effected by this section have been incorporated into the authorised version of the appropriate
Acts.
172.   Transitional provision
(1)  Where an application made under Division 12 of Part VI, as in force immediately before the
commencement of the Land Titles Amendment (Law Reform) Act 2001 , has not been finally dealt with
before that commencement, the Recorder must, on and after that commencement, take whichever of the
following courses of action the Recorder considers to be the more favourable to the applicant:
(a) deal with the application as if that Act had not been enacted;
(b) deal with the application as if it had been made under this Act after that commencement.
(2)  Where, immediately before the commencement of this subsection, a form was prescribed and in
force under the regulations, that form continues to be in force until the Recorder approves another form
to be used in its place under section 169A .
173.   Repeal
(1)  The Acts specified in Schedule 2 are repealed.
(2)  All lands, estates, and interests which at the proclaimed date are subject to any of the Acts repealed
by subsection (1) shall be subject to this Act.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
104 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 1 - Consequential Amendments
Section 171
The amendments effected by this Schedule have been incorporated into the authorised version of the appropriate
Acts.
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
105 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 2 - ACTS REPEALED
Section 173
Year and number of Act
Short title of Act
25 Vict. No. 16
Real Property Act 1862
42 Vict. No. 9
Real Property Act 1878
50 Vict. No. 8
Real Property Act 1886
57 Vict. No. 5
Real Property Act 1893
24 Geo. V No. 26
Real Property (Commonwealth Titles) Act 1933
No. 94 of 1973
Real Property (Special Vesting Orders) Act 1973
No. 56 of 1976
Real Property Act 1976
No. 30 of 1978
Real Property (Special Vesting Orders) Act 1978
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
106 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 3 - Prescribed fees
Section 169E
Item
Matter for which fee is payable
Fee
$ 
 
(1) Applications, caveats and dealings
 
1. 
Lodgement of a dealing, instrument or withdrawal of caveat, request or
application (other than an application made by a person for a change of
name following a change in the person's family status) or making an
entry or entering a memorial or notification for which a fee is not
otherwise prescribed
85.50
2. 
Lodgement for registration of a memorandum of transfer
131.00
3. 
Lodgement of a caveat, discharge of mortgage or discharge of charge
106.00
4. 
Lodgement for registration of a memorandum granting land of the
Crown
131.00
 
(2) Copies
 
5. 
Application  or  request  for  a  copy  of  a  single  document,  dealing,
instrument, plan, strata plan, building title plan or diagram or part of a
single document, dealing, instrument, plan, strata plan, building title
plan or diagram or the field notes or survey notes of a single plan or
diagram –
 
 
(a)   if  the  copy  is  prepared  by  a  photocopying  process,
transparency process, electronic process or facsimile process, for
a copy of a single folio of the Register, dealing, instrument or
document  or  part  of  a  single  folio  of  the  Register,  dealing,
instrument or document
20.00
 
(b) if a typed copy is requested
20.00
 
In addition, for each hour or part of an hour to prepare the
copy
20.00
 
(c) in addition to any fee under paragraph (a) or (b) , if the
application or request is received, or the copy is to be despatched,
by  post,  and  no  reference  number  or  an  incorrect  reference
number is quoted
30.00
 
In addition, for each hour or part of an hour taken to
search for the copy
20.00
 
(3) Certification
 
6. 
Application or request for the certification by the Recorder, Deputy
Recorder or Assistant Recorder of a copy of a single document, dealing,
instrument, plan or diagram or part of a single document, dealing,
instrument, plan or diagram or the field notes or survey notes of a single
plan  or  diagram,  either  as  a  machine  copy  or  print  made  from  a
transparency
50.50
 
In addition, for each hour or part of an hour taken to prepare the
copy for certification
30.00
 
(4) Notices
 
7. 
Lodgement of a priority notice or notice of withdrawal of priority notice
15.10
8. 
For preparing and serving notice to a caveator of intention to register a
dealing under section 136
85.50
 
(5) Maps and plans
 
9. 
Lodgement of each map, plan or building title plan
505.00
 
In addition, for each parcel shown on that map, plan or building
title plan
50.50
10. 
Lodgement of a plan prepared solely for the purpose of placing survey
information on public record
50.50
11. 
Lodgement of an application to amend a plan
505.00
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
107 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
In addition, if the application involves the amendment of the
Register, for each certificate of title to issue pursuant to such
amendment
50.50
12. 
Supply of a plan for which a fee is not otherwise prescribed
505.00
 
In addition, for each hour or part of an hour taken to prepare the
plan
50.50
 
(6) Sealing of instruments
 
13. 
Examination and sealing of an instrument or dealing not prepared on a
form bearing the Recorder's seal
85.50
14. 
Lodgement of a request for the sealing of a printed form
85.50
 
(7) Miscellaneous
 
15. 
Application or request to search a single folio of the Register (including
the face plan of the plan supporting that folio), dealing, instrument or
document
20.00
16. 
Request to search for and supply copies of plans and field notes relevant
to one specified proposed survey
30.00
 
In addition, for each hour or part of an hour taken to comply with
the request
20.00
17. 
Exhibiting deeds surrendered by the applicant
30.00
18. 
Each requisition made by the Recorder –
 
 
(a) for payment of additional fees
15.10
 
(b) under section 50
30.00
 
(c) under section 143B
30.00
19. 
Lodgement of requisition for statement of grounds under section 144
85.50
20. 
Lodgement  of  objection  to  correction  of  plan  or  accompanying
document under section 143C
30.00
View - Tasmanian Legislation Online
https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce...
108 of 108
4/28/25, 21:10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
