Metadata for pdf/HongKong/20190109.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.5', 'title': '', 'author': 'Eileen TAM', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'Microsoft® Office Word 2007', 'producer': 'Microsoft® Office Word 2007', 'creationDate': "D:20190109162405+08'00'", 'modDate': "D:20190109162405+08'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Hong Kong'}

Country found in pdf/HongKong/20190109.pdf: Hong Kong

 
4344838 
 
1
 
 
 
 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SERVICES ORDINANCE (CAP. 626) 
 
PROPOSED LICENSING REGIME FOR  
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANIES  
AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONERS  
 
 
Synopsis 
 
1. 
The Property Management Services Authority (“PMSA”) has formulated 
proposals regarding a licensing regime for property management 
companies and property management practitioners. In November 2018 it 
issued a consultation paper 1 to seek views on these proposals 
(“Consultation Paper”).  
 
2. 
The Law Society has reviewed the Consultation Paper, as well as a press 
release issued by the PMSA on the above consultation on 17 December 
2018. 
 
3. 
We note the PMSA is now proposing to subject the legal profession to the 
regulation, control and disciplinary proceedings of the PMSA (“Proposal 
for Licensing Legal Services”). As a matter of principle, that cannot be 
correct. The Law Society strongly objects to the Proposal for Licensing 
Legal Services. 
 
4. 
Apart from the above fundamental issue, we have reservation as to 
whether the proposals in the Consultation Paper would help implement the 
policy intent that underpins the Property Management Services Ordinance 
(Cap. 626) ("PMSO"). 
 
5. 
Some of the queries we raised in our previous submissions on this matter 
in 2014 remain unanswered, notwithstanding the open agreement in 
October 2014 by the Administration to respond. 
 
6. 
There must be suitable and relevant amendments to the PMSO to address 
the above. 
                                                 
1https://www.pmsahk.org.hk/en/licensing/consultation.html 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
2
Regulatory Regime under PMSO 
 
7. 
Section 2 of PMSO defines "property management company" to mean "a 
business entity (whether a company, partnership or sole proprietorship) 
that carries on the business of providing property management services". 
"Property management services” means “any service prescribed by 
regulation made under section 3(1)” of PMSO. 
 
8. 
Under section 3(1) of PMSO, the PMSA “may, by regulation, prescribe a 
service falling within a category of services set out in Schedule 1 as a 
property management service.” 
 
The following are found in Schedule 1 to PMSO (italics supplied) 
 
(1) 
General management services relating to a property 
(2) 
Management of the environment of a property 
(3) 
Repair, maintenance and improvement of a property 
(4) 
Finance and asset management relating to a property 
(5) 
Facility management relating to a property 
(6) 
Human resources management relating to personnel involved in 
the management of a property; and 
(7) 
Legal services relating to the management of a property 
 
 
9. 
The PMSA now proposes to prescribe all the above, including category (7), 
as property management services – see paragraph 1.2, page 9 of the 
Consultation Paper. 
 
10. 
There is no definition or elaboration for category (7) in PMSO. The 
Consultation Paper itself sets out the scope of this category: 
 
"[Category (7)] is on the understanding on the general scope of 
work of government departments and the judiciary system, 
arrangement of a litigation, arbitration and mediation relating to the 
management of a property, drafting of building management related 
contracts and provision of advice on issues relating to the Building 
Management 
Ordinance 
(BMO) 
(Cap. 
344), 
the 
Property 
Management Services Ordinance (Cap. 626), the DMC of a building 
and relevant legislation or statutory orders." (Chapter 5, paragraph 
1.2 (7), page 12 of the Consultation Paper)  
 
11. 
Disturbingly, the scope that PMSA proposes to cover in category (7) is too 
wide - there is no exception for provision of such services by legally 
qualified professionals. We will show in the following paragraphs that it is 
fundamentally wrong that they should be subject to the licensing 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
3
requirements simply because their areas of legal practice include provision 
of any of such services.  
 
12. 
Following the above, a law firm engaged in for example the review of a 
DMC, or provision of legal advice on a building management contract, 
would be a property management company under the regime of PMSO. 
 
13. 
Section 2 of the PMSO has a definition for "property management 
practitioner". It means "an individual who assumes a management or 
supervisory role in a property management company in relation to property 
management services provided by the company". 
 
14. 
Therefore, a partner or a supervisor in a law firm (as a property 
management company) engaged in the preparation of a DMC or the 
review of a DMC with a view to providing legal advice would become a 
property management practitioner under the PMSO.  Lawyers engaged in 
arbitrating or mediating or in the litigation of property management 
disputes could similarly fall within the definition. 
 
 
Policy Justification? 
 
15. 
When a property management company provides more than one category 
of property management services, it would be required to hold a property 
management company (“PMC”) licence – see sections 6(1) and 7(2), 
PMSO.  Similarly, no person may act as a property management 
practitioner (“PMP”) without a PMP (Tier 1) or (Tier 2) licence – see 
section 6(2) and (3) of PMSO.  
 
16. 
The PMSA is clear that “whether an individual is subject to the licensing 
requirements does not depend on the post title, but rather on whether the 
work of the individual concerned” (see the Press Release on 17 December 
2018). 
 
17. 
When a law firm provides legal services relating to property management, 
it may be engaged in more than one category of property management 
services, such as helping to prepare house rules of a building [Law 
Society comment - according to Chapter 5, paragraph 1.2(1), page 10 of 
the Consultation Paper, this type of service is a category (1) service] and 
advising on the effect of the relevant DMC (see above: a category (7) 
service). The combined effect of sections 6(1) and 7(2) of the PMSO is 
such a law firm is required to hold a PMC licence.  Even if the law firm 
provides legal services relating to property management in only one 
category or sub-category of property management services and hence is 
exempted from the licensing requirement, all lawyers in that law firm who 
assume a management or supervisory role in relation to provision of the 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
4
property management services are property management practitioners as 
defined under PMSO and thereby they have to hold either a PMP (Tier1) 
licence or a PMP (Tier 2) licence. 
 
18. 
A lawyer providing advisory services to property management can fall 
under the PMSO and be considered a property management practitioner 
and thereby subject to the licensing requirements. By way of illustration, 
when an in-house lawyer is engaged in procurement of labour insurance 
and compensation of staff involved in the management of a property (a 
category (6)2 service) or is rendering legal advice on building management 
related contracts (a category3 (7) service). Another example: a solicitor-
mediator (a category (7)3service) who helps to convene owners’ 
committee meetings (a category(1) 4 service) for the purpose of his 
mediation would come under the regime and be required to apply for a 
licence.  Even if only one category of service is provided, the lawyer will 
inadvertently fall within the requirements of the PMSO.  
 
19. 
There is similarly no definition for other categories of property 
management services in Schedule 1 of PMSO. The PMSA only gives 
illustrations in the Consultation Paper, including: 
 
Category (5) 5  – “… Examples include but are not limited to 
management of club house, [and] it includes application for relevant 
licences [Law Society comment– this falls squarely within the work of 
corporate lawyers who assist in the application of the club house 
licence]…” 
 
20. 
The PMSA proposes to include all categories of the services set out in 
Schedule 1 of the PMSO as property management services for the 
purposes of section 3(1) of the PMSO. In addition, section 3(2) of the 
PMSO empowers the PMSA to prescribe more than one type of service 
under a category. The effect of prescribing all the categories of services 
set out in Schedule 1 as property management services without limitation 
or exception, together with the powers given by section 3(2), will make the 
regulatory regime under PMSO excessively broad and bring lawyers and 
other professionals who provide services to PMCs and PMPs under the 
licensing control of PMSA. 
 
21. 
The above is particularly troubling when 
 
                                                 
2  The Consultation explains what the PMSA envisages to be covered in this category, see p.11 
3  See page 12 for the scope 
4  See page 10 for the scope 
5Ibid 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
5
(a) the Consultation Paper merely provides “examples” of what are 
proposed to be covered.  These “examples” are not statutory 
provisions; 
 
(b) the language used in the examples is imprecise and confusing. By 
way of example, under Category 2, the Consultation Paper provides 
that “[Category (2)] is on the repair, replacement, maintenance and 
large-scale maintenance [Law Society query – how is the first 
“maintenance” in this phrase different from “large scale maintenance” 
referred to in the explanation notes for the same category of 
services?], continuous improvement [Law Society query – how 
“continuous”?] of the functions of a property [Law Society query – 
what are meant by the “functions of a property”?]”. 
 
22. 
Put simply, the legal profession would now be subject to the regulation, 
control and disciplinary proceedings of the PMSO under a confusing 
regime. This is wrong as a matter of principle when, fundamentally, there 
is no policy justification for the proposed control.  The legal professionals 
are already subject to a well-established system of statutory and 
regulatory control and discipline operated and monitored by the Law 
Society.  The Law Society also has specific CPD requirements which its 
members have to comply with annually before they are entitled to 
practicing certificates. 
 
23. 
In fact, there are already ordinances and rules in Hong Kong which rightly 
recognize the adequacy of the existing regulatory framework for solicitors 
and which exempt the legal profession from the respective regulatory 
regimes. For example, section 2(2)(b) of the Estate Agents Ordinance 
(Cap 511)6 , section 7(5A) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-
Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 615) 7  and the professional 
exemptions provided by the Securities and Futures Commission8.  In the 
circumstances, the same exemption should be provided for the legal 
profession in the proposed licensing regime. 
 
24. 
For record, the Law Society has not in any previous consultations or 
discussions with the Policy Bureau been advised of any policy intent of 
regulating the legal profession. There was also no indication of the above 
in the Legislative Council when the related Property Management Services 
Bill was scrutinized. On the other hand, in the course of review of the Bill, 
we have raised our concerns on the meaning of “legal service” in our 
submission of 6 August 2014 on this matter9. We have not received any 
                                                 
6 https://www.elegislation.gov.hk/hk/cap511?INDEX_CS=N 
7 https://www.elegislation.gov.hk/hk/cap615?INDEX_CS=N 
8 https://www.sfc.hk/web/EN/regulatory-functions/intermediaries/licensing/do-you-need-a-licence-or-
registration.html#3 
9 See para 2.3 in the submission: http://www.hklawsoc.org.hk/pub_e/news/submissions/20140806a.pdf 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
6
replies or invitation to dialogues. The confusing and unnecessarily wide 
licensing regime as proposed is not acceptable to the legal profession. We 
hereby make it clear that unless our concerns are addressed and 
appropriate amendments are made to the PMSO, we object to the 
Proposal for Licensing Legal Services.  
 
 
Effect on Pro Bono Services 
 
25. 
There are penalties under the licensing regime. For example, for offences 
relating to applications for licences, an offender on conviction on 
indictment under section 14 is liable to a fine of $200,000 and to 
imprisonment for 1 year; or on summary conviction to a fine at level 6 and 
to imprisonment for 6 months. 
 
26. 
The PMSA may issue and/or gazette a code of conduct for the licensees 
under the regime (see section 4). Breaches of the code attract disciplinary 
offences (section 3). 
 
27. 
The licensing regime coupled with pecuniary and custodial punishments 
are demoralizing and would have deterrent effects upon those pro bono 
legal services now offered to owners’ corporations and the general public 
on property management.  The exception under section 7(4) of the PMSO 
apparently does not help as the above pro bono services do involve a 
reimbursement (of travelling expenses) which could arguably be a 
"consideration".    
  
28. 
The requirement to have a license from PMSA for pro bono solicitors 
significantly deviates from the current practice. Currently, to protect the 
interests of the public, pro bono solicitors are required to hold a Practising 
Certificate issued by the Law Society of Hong Kong and hence are subject 
to the same CPD and indemnity requirements as solicitors serving their 
clients.   
 
29. 
Under the licensing regime, it will not be difficult to foresee that members 
of the Law Society would be discouraged to take part in the offer of pro 
bono advice on building management, such include (i) the scheme on 
“Free Legal Advice Service on Building Management” run by the Home 
Affairs Department ("HAD") since about 201510; and (ii) the "Three-year 
Pilot Free Outreach Legal Advice Services to Owners' Corporations", also 
proposed by HAD. This “Legal Advice Services" is a "semi" pro-bono 
service at a consideration / fee to be agreed between HAD and the Law 
Society.  The proposed scheme aims to, among other things, assist the 
                                                 
10https://www.buildingmgt.gov.hk/en/whats_new/t_2_13.htm.  The scheme had been run by the Housing 
Society before, and it was transferred back to Home Affairs Department in 2015. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
7
Owners' Corporations in the conduct of general meetings.  It is expected to 
be launched in 2019. 
 
30. 
The Law Society will have a re-think on taking part in any pro-bono service 
and/or semi pro-bono services if our members could be exposed to a 
confusing and unreasonable licensing regime in taking up "property 
management services" as defined under PMSO. 
 
 
Other Problems with the Proposals  
 
31. 
The combined effect of sections 7(5) and 7(8) of the PMSO is that an 
owners’ organization or owner(s) of a property containing less than 1,500 
flats and managing the property without engaging any property 
management companies (“PMCs”) or property management practitioners 
(“PMPs”) are not required to have a PMC licence or as the case may be a 
PMP (Tier 1) licence or PMP (Tier 2) licence.  
 
32. 
In Hong Kong, it is not uncommon for an owners’ organization or owner(s) 
of a property containing less than 1,500 flats to engage a PMC or PMP for 
the management services set out in Schedule 1 of the PMO. For instance, 
it could engage PMP/PMC for  
 general management (such as waste and refuse disposal, a 
Category(1) service) and  
 finance and asset management (preparing and auditing management 
accounts, a Category(5) service).   
 
If a PMC license is exempted only when the property contains less than 
1,500 flats and the property has not engaged any PMC or PMP, the 
exceptions to the prohibitions of unlicensed activities would be 
prohibitively narrow. That is not at all helpful to the general public and is 
not consistent with the policy intent of the Administration to improve 
property management. 
 
33. 
In most cases, although owners’ committee or owners’ corporation has 
been formed to manage a property, the owners will also engage a PMC or 
PMP(s) to provide property management services in particular aspect(s) 
such as disposal of garbage and those mentioned in the above.  Since the 
condition for exemption stipulated in Section 7(5) or 7(6)(a) of the PMSO 
will not be satisfied in such cases, the members of the owners’ committee 
or management committee will have to apply for PMP licences.  It is 
foreseeable that most if not all of the existing members of owners’ 
committee or owners’ corporation will resign from their appointment and 
the owners of the property are deterred from acting as members of the 
owners’ committee or management committee.  As a result, the formation 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
8
of owners’ committee or owners’ corporation of a property will be severely 
hindered by the narrow exceptions provided under Sections 7(5) and 7(6) 
of the PMSO. 
 
34. 
Section 7(6)(b)(ii) of the PMSO is also peculiar for it prohibits a lawyer who 
happens to be an owner of the kind of property intended to benefit from 
the exception from licensing from providing property management services 
to the property of which he is an owner in his capacity as an owner, as 
long as he or his law firm provides legal services relating to property 
management (category (7) services) for profit. This would mean that all 
such lawyers who now serve on the owners’ committee or the 
management committee of their building have to resign from their 
appointment when the licensing regime has become effective unless they 
have obtained licences from PMSA. 
 
35. 
In our submission11 of 6 August 2014 rendered on the matter, we raised 
the following  
 
"3.3 
It is the intention of the Administration to subject only those 
multi-storey buildings involving shared ownership of common parts 
and with Deed of Mutual Covenants ("DMC") in effect to the licensing 
regime.  Hence the following situation should be excluded from the 
Bill12: 
 
(i) The sole owner of a part (e.g. commercial accommodation) in a 
development involving no shared ownership of common areas 
should be allowed to manage the commercial accommodation 
without being subject to the licensing regime. 
 
(ii) Similarly, if the commercial accommodation is owned by two 
owners without strata-title, either or both of the owners should also 
be allowed to manage such commercial accommodation and not 
subject to the licensing regime. 
 
The Administration is invited to clarify the above scenario and include 
them as exceptions to Clause 6 of Part 2 of the Bill." 
 
36. 
In a Legislative Council paper in October 2014 (LC Paper No. CB(2)22/14-
15(04)), the Administration, among other things, replied in paragraph 3.3 
of the paper that the Administration noted the Law Society's comments 
and will consider in consultation with the Department of Justice whether to 
include the suggested exceptions in clause 7(4) of the Bill.  We have so far 
                                                 
11http://www.hklawsoc.org.hk/pub_e/news/submissions/20140806a.pdf 
12The Property Management Services Bill 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4344838 
 
9
received no response from the Administration on the above, but now note 
that (1) the exceptions have not been included in the PMSO, and (2) it is 
not mentioned in the Consultation Paper how the Administration is to 
address the above notwithstanding the above open promise. The situation 
is unsatisfactory. In our views the above derails the policy intent to help 
the general public with property management. 
 
37. 
In relation to the PMC Register as a whole, apart from information on the 
number of household units for which a PMC is providing property 
management services, we are of the view that other information such as 
the addresses of the buildings managed by the PMC, the number of any 
office, commercial and industrial buildings managed by the PMC and the 
area of accommodation provided by the buildings, the locality of the 
residential and other types of buildings managed by the PMC, whether 
short term parking facilities for guests and visitors are involved, whether 
there is any recreational space for public use in the buildings managed by 
the PMC, should be included in the PMC Register, to make the Register 
useful to the public.   
 
38. 
The above observations are not exhaustive.  
 
39. 
We ask that the PMSO must be amended as soon as practicable. 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
40. 
We do not support the Proposal for Licensing Legal Services. The 
principle underlining the Proposal for Licensing Legal Services is 
fundamentally wrong. Some of the proposals in the Consultation Paper will 
also have the effect of being counter-productive to the improvement of 
property management in Hong Kong. 
 
41. 
We take a strong view that the PMSO MUST be amended as soon as 
practicable to sufficiently and satisfactorily address the concerns we raise 
in relation to the Proposal for Licensing Legal Services in the above as 
well as in our submissions in 2014. Amendments are also required to 
correct other problematic parts of the proposals in the Consultation Paper. 
We would welcome the chance of further dialogue with the PMSA on the 
matter. 
 
 
 
 
The Law Society of Hong Kong 
9 January 2019 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
