Metadata for pdf/HongKong/21-426a1.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.6', 'title': '', 'author': '', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': '', 'producer': 'Adobe Acrobat Standard 2017 17 Paper Capture Plug-in', 'creationDate': 'D:20210810152642Z', 'modDate': "D:20210810174936+08'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Unknown'}

Country found in pdf/HongKong/21-426a1.pdf: Unknown

Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 3/2020A 
Design, Disposition and Height Clause under Lease 
(Site Coverage) 
The streamlined arrangements in imposing and ensuring compliance of Site 
Coverage 1 (SC) restriction as a development control parameter amongst the Buildings 
Department (BD), Lands Department (LandsD) and Planning Department promulgated in 
Joint Practice Note (JPN) No. 7 take effect from 23 August 2021. To effect the streamlined 
arrangements, this practice note (PN) varies and supplements paragraph 7(a)(i) of Lands 
Administration Office (LAO) PN Issue No. 3/2020 in so far as the accountability of 
underground structures in SC calculation concerns. 
2. 
The streamlined arrangements are premised on the objective of giving the lot 
owner greater flexibility in the use of underground space within the lot and in tum in planning 
the overall design of a development, with other development parameters set out in the lease 
remaining unchanged._ It is not intended to give the lot owner an increase in development 
intensity that would otherwise not be achievable under existing lease conditions. 
3. 
With the above objective in- mind, under the streamlined arrangements as 
promulgated in JPN No. 7, for leases2 which contain provision on maximum gross floor area 
(GF A) or plot ratio or both and provision on SC restriction, LandsD would generally adopt BD' s 
treatment of facilities and features for SC accountability, unless explicit lease conditions prohibit 
LandsD from doing so. 
4. 
For leases which do not contain provision on maximum GF A nor-provision on 
maximum plot ratio but contain provision on SC restriction (hence the SC restriction and height 
limit clauses have been relied upon to control development intensity and which has not 
exempted underground building or structures from calculating SC accountability), the Director 
of Lands (the Director) may, unless otherwise stated in the statutory town plan, flexibly 
consider to disregard underground structures 3 when checking compliance with the SC 
restriction for development, redevelopment or alteration and addition works provided that the 
1 There are leases under which roofed-over area (ROA) restriction was imposed and served as de-facto restriction 
over SC. In checking compliance with ROA restriction, the Director of Lands would adopt the same approach 
as that in checking compliance with SC restriction. 
2 All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale/ Grant/ Exchange, 
etc. as the case may be and "leases" shall be construed accordingly. 
3 The Director's decision as to what constitutes underground structures shaJI be final and binding. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lot owner could demonstrate in all respects to the satisfaction of the Director that the 
development intensity, upon development, redevelopment or alteration and addition works 
would not exceed that achievable under existing lease conditions. In other words, when the 
flexible arrangement to disregard the underground structures for the proposed development in 
SC calculation would result in an increase in development intensity which would not have been 
achievable without the flexibility, the lot owner will have to apply for a lease modification· 
should he wish to pursue with such development, redevelopment or alteration and addition 
works. 
5. 
This PN is not applicable to any building which, by reason of the Buildings 
Ordinance (Application to the New Territories) Ordinance (Cap. 121), is exempted from the 
provisions of the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123). 
6. 
In reading this PN, reference may be made to LAO PN Issue No. 1/2004 regarding 
the procedures for introduction of flexibility into the SC restriction clause in the lease condition. 
7. 
It must be noted that nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter or affect or 
prejudice the rights of the Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant lease 
or the Government's rights as lessor/ landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved, and that 
nothing in this PN including any words and expressions used shall in any way be construed as 
any waiver of any provisions under lease or affect or bind the Government in relation to 
interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. All 
rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
2 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
11 August 2021 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
