Metadata for pdf/HongKong/23-726a3.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.6', 'title': 'Microsoft Word - Two-pager for Estate Agents and Solicitors(eng)_20231025_final.docx', 'author': 'VenusTsoi', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'PScript5.dll Version 5.2.2', 'producer': 'Acrobat Distiller 17.0 (Windows)', 'creationDate': "D:20231026162948+08'00'", 'modDate': "D:20231026162948+08'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Hong Kong'}

Country found in pdf/HongKong/23-726a3.pdf: Hong Kong

Summary of the Suspension Mechanism of Stamp Duty for  
Incoming Talents’ Purchase of Residential Property 
 
Key arrangements of the mechanism are summarised below – 
 
(a) when an eligible incoming talent1 purchases a residential property in Hong Kong 
on or after 25 October 2023 (i.e. the 2023 PA date), he/she may apply to the Inland 
Revenue Department (“IRD”) for suspension of stamp duty in respect of the 
Buyer’s Stamp Duty (“BSD”) and the difference between New Residential Stamp 
Duty (“NRSD”) and ad valorem stamp duty (“AVD”) at Scale 2 rates (i.e. “specified 
amount”) when presenting the instrument of acquisition to IRD for stamping.  The 
talent still has to pay AVD at Scale 2 rates to IRD; 
 
(b) upon IRD’s vetting and approval of the application for suspension, a statutory 
charge will be constituted in favour of the Collector of Stamp Revenue 
(“Collector”) automatically by law.  IRD will register an instrument denoting the 
charge (i.e. a certificate of charge) at the Land Registry (“LR”).  In terms of 
priority, the charge in favour of the Collector will be second only to the first 
mortgage for acquiring the property to the extent of a reserved amount2; 
 
(c) after the eligible incoming talent becomes a HKPR, he/she can submit an 
application for waiver to IRD for waiving the liabilities in respect of the 
specified amount.  Upon IRD’s vetting and approval of the relevant application, 
IRD will issue a certificate of discharge in respect of the charge in favour of the 
Collector, which has the effect of discharging the charge and is registrable at LR; 
and 
 
(d) in the event that the eligible incoming talent buyer fails to become HKPR within 
nine years from the date when he/she is permitted to stay in Hong Kong under the 
designated talent scheme (i.e. seven years of ordinary residence in Hong Kong plus 
two years as buffer), or under certain triggering circumstances3, he/she will be liable 
to pay the specified amount to IRD within 30 days of the occurrence of the 
circumstance.  If the eligible incoming talent buyer fails to do so, he/she will be 
liable to pay late stamping penalty, which is set with reference to the existing 
provision on “late stamping” under the section 9 of the Stamp Duty Ordinance4. 
                                                       
1 An eligible incoming talent is a person to whom a specified talent scheme applies (provided under Schedule 
12 to the Stamp Duty Ordinance), who at the time of acquisition of the residential property, is not a beneficial 
owner of any other residential property.  
2 The reserved amount would be the lower of (a) the actual amount of the principal and interest in respect of 
the loan for acquiring the subject property under the acquisition mortgage concerned; or (b) an amount arrived 
at by deducting the specified amount from the amount/value of the consideration for the acquisition of the 
subject property to cater for cases where the sum of mortgage loan taken out exceeds the value/consideration 
of the property. 
3 The triggering circumstances are (a) on any date before the deadline for waiver – if the eligible incoming 
talent buyer/each of the eligible incoming talent co-buyers cease(s) to be a beneficial owner of the subject 
property, or a person, other than one closely related to the talent buyer or all of the remaining co-buyers, 
becomes a beneficial owner of the subject property; and (b) as at the deadline for waiver – in case where no 
liability has been waived by the Collector in respect of the specified amount. 
4  The late stamping penalty is to be imposed according to the following scale - (a) Not exceeding 1 month – 
double the amount of the specified amount; (b) Exceeding 1 months but not exceeding 2 months – 4 times the 
specified amount; and (c) In any other case – 10 times the amount of the specified amount. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 
 
Points to note for estate agents and solicitors handling related transactions –  
 
Scenario 1: Incoming talent wishes to acquire his/her first property in Hong Kong 
1. Confirm whether the buyer is an eligible incoming talent (i.e. permitted to stay in 
Hong Kong by virtue of being a person to whom a specified talent scheme applies as 
provided under Schedule 12 to the Stamp Duty Ordinance); 
2. If the buyer is an eligible incoming talent, when presenting the instrument of 
acquisition in respect of the property to IRD for stamping, he/she has to apply for 
suspension of the relevant stamp duty (i.e. “specified amount”) at the same time; 
3. Remind the incoming talent that when he/she becomes a HKPR, he/she has to 
apply to IRD for waiving the liabilities in respect of the specified amount, in order 
to discharge the charge registered at LR; and 
4. Remind the incoming talent that he/she has to become HKPR within nine years 
from the date when he/she is permitted to stay in Hong Kong under the designated 
talent scheme.  If he/she has not become HKPR by then, or certain triggering 
circumstances occurred (see footnote 3), he/she will be liable to pay the specified 
amount to IRD within 30 days of the occurrence of the circumstance.  If the 
incoming talent fails to pay the stamp duty so before the deadline, he/she will be 
liable to pay a penalty.  The maximum penalty is 10 times the amount of the 
specified amount. 
 
Scenario 2: Incoming talent already owned a property in Hong Kong, and wishes to 
acquire a second property for the purpose of replacing his/her property 
1. Confirm whether the incoming talent buyer has paid BSD and NRSD in respect of 
the original property; 
2. Remind the incoming talent that when he/she acquires the new property, he/she 
should first pay BSD and NRSD in respect of the new property.  When the buyer 
has disposed of the original property within one year after his/her acquisition of the 
new property, he/she may apply to IRD for refund of the specified amount and 
suspension of the same in respect of the new property; and 
3. Remind the incoming talent that when he/she becomes a HKPR, he/she has to 
apply to IRD for waiving the liabilities in respect of the specified amount, in order 
to discharge the charge registered at LR. 
 
Scenario 3: Other buyers interested in acquiring a property registered with a charge in 
favour of the Collector (i.e. incoming talent as seller) 
1. Pay attention to whether there is a charge in favour of the Collector registered in the 
land record of the property; and 
2. If the relevant property is registered with such charge, confirm with the incoming 
talent seller that the relevant specified amount would be paid within 30 days after the 
signing of the agreement for sale and purchase, in order to discharge the charge; and 
remind the buyer that if the seller has not paid the amount to discharge the charge by 
the deadline, the charge will continue to be registered on the land record of the 
property after completion of the transaction. 
 
************* 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
