Metadata for pdf/HongKong/gfa.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.6', 'title': '', 'author': '', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'ApeosPort C5570', 'producer': 'Adobe Acrobat Pro 2017 17 Paper Capture Plug-in', 'creationDate': "D:20250320100648+08'00'", 'modDate': "D:20250320102645+08'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Hong Kong'}

Country found in pdf/HongKong/gfa.pdf: Hong Kong

Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Gross Floor Area Exemption 
Issue No. 3/2025 
for Aboveground Parking Spaces in New Developments or Redevelopments 
An enhancement to the arrangement for disregarding aboveground carparking floor and 
car park ancillary areas from Gross Floor Area ("GF A") calculation was promulgated by the 
Buildings Department ("BD") vide its revised Practice Note for Authorized Persons, Registered 
Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers No. APP-2 ("PNAP APP-2") on 
"Calculation of Gross Floor Area and Non-accountable Gross Floor Area - Building (Planning) 
Regulation 23(3)(a) and (b)" in December 2023 ("Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces 
Arrangement") 1. This Practice Note ("PN") sets out the streamlined procedures of the Lands 
Department ("LandsD") to deal with the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement 
under lease2• 
Streamlining procedures 
2. 
The Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement applies to all new building 
plans (including major revision) for new building developments submitted to the BA for approval 
on or after 31 December 2023, but not existing buildings. It will be effected under lease in the 
following streamlined manner -
(a) For new leases and lease modifications (including land exchange but excluding 
minor modification and technical modification) 
A sub-clause will be incorporated into the "Parking and Loading/Unloading 
1 
The Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces .Arrangement is set out in paragraph 18( c) of PNAP APP-2 and further 
elaborated in paragraphs 7 to 10 of its Appendix C. 
Under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces 
Arrangement, not more than one floor of parking spaces (whether private or public parking spaces) provided at 
or above ground level together with areas solely serving such parking spaces (including reasonable size 
driveways, ramps, lift shafts and lobbies of car/passenger lifts and staircases and also parking information 
facilities provided to the satisfaction of the Commissioner for Transport) may be disregarded from GFA 
calculation by the Building Authority ("BA"). 
2 
All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Grant / Sale / Exchange, 
as the case may be. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Requirements" clause in the lease to provide for -
(i) · 
the Director of Lands ("the Director") to exclude from GF A calculation one 
floor of parking spaces at or above ground level which has been disregarded 
from GF A calculation by the BA under the Revised Aboveground Parking 
Spaces Arrangement; and 
(ii) 
. the Director, at his sole discretion, to exclude from GF A calculation the 
ancillary areas serving the parking spaces which have been disregarded from 
GF A calculation by the BA under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces 
Arrangement referred to in (i). 
The aforesaid parking spaces and the ancillary areas disregarded from GF A calculation 
by the BA under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement are 
collectively referred to as "Aboveground Parking Spaces". LandsD will take into 
account such sub-clause in assessing the premium for the new lease and lease 
modification. If a lease contains such a sub-clause, exclusion of such Aboveground 
Parking Spaces from GF A calculation will be granted under lease during the building 
plan checking stage and no separate application to LandsD or payment of premium or 
administrative fee will be required. 
(b) For existing leases containing GF A exemption provisions 
For leases containing (i) the GF A exemption provision in Appendix I or (ii) leases 
without any specific GF A exemption provision for parking spaces provided at or above 
ground level but containing the GF A exemption flexibility provision for the Director to 
exclude from GF A calculation any floor space which has been excluded by the BA 
subject to payment of premium and administrative fee ( e.g. the provisions in Appendix 
II), the lot owner may apply to LandsD for a consent letter to exclude the GF A of the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces from GF A calculation under lease in a manner to be 
specified in the consent letter ("the Specified Exempted GF A"). The issue of the 
consent letter will be subject to payment of premium and administrative fee for the 
Specified Exempted GF A. In the event of any subsequent changes in the GF A of the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces disregarded under the Revised Aboveground Parking 
Spaces Arrangement resulting in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking Spaces 
calculated under lease exceeding the Specified Exempted GF A stipulated in the 
consent letter, the lot owner is required to apply to LandsD for a further consent letter 
subject to payment of premium and administrative fee for the additional GF A 
2 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
disregarded. 
( c) For existing leases without GF A exemption provisions 
For existing leases without any GF A exemption provisions mentioned above, the lot 
owner may apply to LandsD for a lease modification to add a GF A exemption provision 
similar to those in Appendix II to the lease together with a consent letter to exclude the 
Specified Exempted GF A from GF A calculation under lease. 
For such lease 
modification application submitted in conjunction with a consent application, the lease 
modification will be subject to nil premium, whereas the consent letter for the 
Specified Exempted GF A will be subject to payment of premium and only one 
administrative fee will be charged for the lease modification and the consent letter. 
In 
the event of any subsequent changes in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking Spaces 
disregarded under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement resulting in 
the GF A of the Aboveground Parking Spaces calculated under lease exceeding the 
Specified Exempted GF A stipulated in the consent letter, no lease modification is 
required, but the lot owner has to apply to LandsD for a further consent letter subject 
to payment of premium and administrative fee for the additional GF A disregarded. 
( d) Premium and Administrative Fee 
(i) 
To facilitate timely determination by LandsD of the Specified Exempted GF A, 
the lot owner shall provide LandsD with the GF A calculations of the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces on the basis of their GF A accountability under 
lease, which shall be certified by the Authorised Person appointed by the lot 
owner. LandsD will then consider and determine the Specified Exempted GF A 
and carry out premium assessment. LandsD reserves the right to require the lot 
owner to provide additional supporting information and/or documents to 
facilitate processing of the consent letter application and the lot owner shall 
within such time as required by LandsD provide the information and/or 
documents. The decision of LandsD on the Specified Exempted GF A will be 
final and binding on the lot owner. 
(ii) 
For consent letter applications involving only GF A exemption for private parking 
spaces at or above ground level and the ancillary areas serving such parking 
spaces disregarded from GF A calculation under the Revised Aboveground 
Parking Spaces Arrangement, premium will be charged at the standard rate as set 
out in Appendix III and, subject to review from time to time, an administrative 
fee at the current rate of $78,900 (amount will be determined by LandsD from 
time to time) will be payable in addition to the premium. The standard rate for 
3 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
calculation of premium is subject to review from time to time but in no event 
earlier than 1 April 2026. For consent applications involving GF A exemption for 
public parking spaces or for both public parking spaces and private parking 
spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces disregarded from GF A 
calculation under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement, 
premium and administrative fee will be assessed in accordance with the existing 
mechanism on a case-by-case basis. 
(iii) For the avoidance of doubt, the standard rate applicable to premium assessment 
referred to in (ii) shall be the rate prevailing at the time of assessment irrespective 
of the date of the application, and the premium payable will be determined by 
LandsD at its absolute discretion and is non-negotiable. 
Fast-track Approach 
3. 
A fast-track approach will be introduced for processing applications for the lease 
modification and/or consent letter in paragraphs 2(b) and 2(c) above. For applications involving 
only GF A exemption for private parking spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking 
spaces, LandsD aims to advise the lot owner of the terms and conditions of the lease modification 
and/or the consent letter as well as the premium assessed based on the standard rate and the 
administrative fee chargeable within 10 weeks upon receipt of a valid application. 
For 
applications involving GF A exemption for public parking spaces or for both public parking spaces 
and private parking spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces, LandsD aims to 
advise the lot owner of the terms and conditions of the lease modification and/or consent letter as 
well as the premium assessed in accordance with the existing mechanism on a case-by-case basis 
and the administrative fee chargeable within 16 weeks upon receipt of a valid application. Lot 
owners shall submit their applications together with the necessary information and documents as 
per the checklist in Appendix IV as soon as possible after the building plans submitted in respect 
of the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement are approved by the BA. 
4. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this PN caters for lease modifications and/or consent letters 
in respect of the Aboveground Parking Spaces disregarded under the Revised Aboveground 
Parking Spaces Arrangement only. The fast-track approach and standard rate at Appendix III do 
not apply to applications for lease modification which also involve variations of some other terms 
and conditions in the lease, including but not limited to the exclusion of private and/or public 
parking spaces provided below ground level from the calculation of the total GF A under lease, in 
which case the lease modification will be processed under normal procedures and the premium 
will be assessed holistically under the conventional premium assessment mechanism. 
4 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter, affect or prejudice the rights of the 
Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant lease or the Government's rights 
as lessor or landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. Besides, nothing in this PN, 
including any words and expressions used, shall in any way be construed as any variation or 
waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect or bind the Government in relation to 
interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. All 
rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. This PN takes immediate 
effect. 
5 
( Maurice Loo ) 
Director of Lands 
19 March 2025 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Parking spaces etc. 
excluded from gross 
floor area 
calculation 
Appendix I 
(a) 
For the purpose of calculating the total gross floor area referred 
to in Special Condition No. ( )() hereof, 
(i) 
there shall not be taken into account 
(I) 
the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Conditions Nos. ( 
) (as may be varied under 
Special Condition No. ( ) hereof) and ( ) hereof 
if they are provided below ground level; and 
(II) 
the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Condition No. ( ) hereof (as may be varied under 
Special Condition No. ( 
) hereof) if they are 
provided at or below ground level; 
(ii) 
if the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Conditions Nos. ( ) (as may be varied under Special 
Condition No. ( ) hereof) and ( ) hereof are provided at 
or above ground level or the spaces provided in 
accordance with Special Condition No. ( ) hereof (as 
may be varied under Special Condition No. ( ) hereof) 
are provided abo"o/e ground level, 50% of such spaces 
together with 50% of the other areas including but not 
limited to lift lobbies, landings, pedestrian access routes, 
manoeuvring and circulation areas and plant rooms 
serving such spaces shall be taken into account for the 
calculation of the total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. ( )( ) hereof as to which the 
decision of the Director shall be final and binding on the 
Purchaser. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding sub-clause (a)(ii) of this Special Condition, 
the Director at his sole discretion may subject to the payment by the Purchaser 
of any premium and administrative fee as shall be determined by the Director 
exclude any spaces and other areas referred to in sub-clause (a)(ii) of this 
Special Condition from the calculation of total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. ( )( ) hereof as to which the decision of the Director 
shall be final and binding on the Purchaser. 
(c) 
For the purpose of this Special Condition, the decision of the 
Director as to what constitutes ground level or whether any space is at, above 
or below ground level shall be final and binding on the Purchaser. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Appendix II 
... the Director at his sole discretion may: 
OR 
( ) 
in calculating the gross floor area of any building or buildings erected or 
to be erected on the lot ... exclude : 
( ) 
any structure or floor space other than that referred to in sub-
clauses ( )( )( ), ( )( )( ) and ( )( ) of this Special Condition, which 
has been excluded by the Building Authority from the calculation 
of gross floor area under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations 
made thereunder and any amending legislation provided that the 
Director at his sole discretion may require the payment by the 
Purchaser of an additional premium and administrative fee as shall 
be determined by the Director for any structure or any floor space 
excluded under this sub-clause ... 
... the Director at his sole discretion may: 
( ) 
in calculating the gross floor area of any building or buildings erected or 
to be erected on the lot ... exclude: 
( ) 
subject to the payment by the Purchaser of any premium and 
administrative fee as shall be determined by the Director: 
( ) 
any floor space or structure which has been excluded by the 
Building Authority from the calculation of gross floor area 
under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations made 
thereunder and any amending legislation ... 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard Rate for Calculation of Premium for 
Exemption of Aboveground Private Parking Spaces 
from Gross Floor Area (GFA) Calculation under Lease 
Appendix III 
The rate stated below is only applicable to the exemption of private parking 
spaces at or above ground level and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces 
which have been disregarded from GFA calculation by the Building Authority ("BA") 
under the Revised Aboveground Parking Spaces Arrangement. 
I Standard Rate (I) 
$8,300/m2 
(!) 
The rate refers to the unit rate per square metre of the Specified Exempted GFA (as defined in 
paragraph 2(b) of Practice Note No. 3/2025 (''the PN")), which shall be calculated on the basis of 
the GFA accountability of the Aboveground Parking Spaces under lease as per paragraph 2(d)(i) of 
the PN. 
The premium to be charged is the rate as abovementioned multiplied by the Specified 
Exempted GFA. 
The Specified Exempted GFA will be rounded up to the nearest O.lm2 when 
calculating the premium payable. The premium payable will be determined by the Lands 
Department at its absolute discretion and is non-negotiable. For the avoidance of doubt, the 
standard rate is not applicable to applications involving GFA exemption for public parking spaces 
or for both public parking spaces and private parking spaces under the Revised Aboveground 
Parking Spaces Arrangement. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Appendix IV 
Checklist for Submission of an Application for Lease Modification/ 
Consent Letter for Exemption of Aboveground Parking Spaces 
from Gross Floor Area (GFA) Calculation 
A. Infonnation/Documents that must be submitted for all applications (I) 
(i) 
A copy of a computer printout containing the current ownership particulars 
of the PropertyC2)_ 
(ii) If submitted by an agent, a written authorisation from the principal who 
should be the registered owner of the Property. 
(iii) If submitted by an individual applicant, a written confinnation that he has 
read and understood the Note on Use of Personal Information Required in 
· the Application at the end of this Appendix and that he consents to 
disclosure of his personal data to other Government bureaux or 
departments for the purpose of considering and processing his application. 
B. Information/Documents that must be submitted for application for consent letter (I) 
(i) 
A copy of general building plans ("GBPs") approved by the Building 
Authority ("BA") delineating the parking spaces at or above ground level 
and ancillary areas serving such spaces which have been disregarded from 
GF A calculation by the BA under the Revised Aboveground Parking 
Spaces Arrangement referred to in Lands Administration Office Practice 
Note No. 3/2025. ("Aboveground Parking Spaces") 
(ii) 
GF A calculations certified by an Authorised Person engaged by the 
registered owners of the Property for the Aboveground Parking Spaces, 
prepared on the basis of their GF A accountability under lease. 
C. Information/Documents that must be submitted for application for lease 
modification (I) 
(i) 
A detailed application letter clearly identifying the Property, the variations 
being sought in respect of any terms and conditions of the existing lease 
conditions. 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location/site plan on an appropriate scale 
(nonnally 1: 1000) showing the Property. 
Notes: 
(I) 
(2) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable. 
Property includes all lots involved in an application. 
• • • 
• 
• 
• • 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
Purpose of Collection 
Class of Transferees 
Access to Personal Data 
Enquiries 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this Practice 
Note and Appendix III will be used by the Lands Department for 
the purpose of considering and processing the application. The 
provision of the personal data is obligatory. If you do not provide 
the personal data, the Lands Department may not be able to 
process your application. 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux/departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and con-ection with respect to personal data as provided 
for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule I of the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). Such right of 
access includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data 
provided upon payment of the applicable charge. 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and c01Tections, should be addressed to: 
Depaiimental Personal Data Controlling 
Officer of the Lands Department 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
333 Java Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
