Metadata for pdf/HongKong/property.pdf: {'format': 'PDF 1.4', 'title': 'Microsoft Word - UN terrorism bill CSA submission.doc', 'author': 'Administrator', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'http://www.fineprint.com', 'producer': 'FinePrint pdfFactory Pro v1.31 (Windows 2000 Chinese)', 'creationDate': 'D:20040521134229', 'modDate': '', 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None, 'country': 'Hong Kong'}

Country found in pdf/HongKong/property.pdf: Hong Kong

 
1
 
 
Comments on the Committee Stage Amendments of 
United Nations (Anti-Terrorism Measures) (Amendment) Bill 2003 
 
The Law Society has reviewed the Committee Stage Amendments submitted by the 
Administration and has the following comments: 
 
Threshold to freeze property 
1. 
We maintain our earlier criticism that the Secretary for Security (“ S for S”) 
should not be able to freeze terrorist property based on his judgment that he is 
satisfied there are “ reasonable grounds to suspect” as this threshold is too low to 
trigger the exercise of this power.   
 
2. 
The triggering mechanism in Section 6, “ Freezing of property”, is inconsistent 
with those in Section 13, “ Forfeiture of certain terrorist property” and the new 
Part 4B, “ Seizure and Detention of property suspected to be terrorist property”.  
Clarification is required. 
 
Comparison of Section 6, Part 4B and Section 13 
 
Section 6 
Freezing of 
terrorist 
property 
Part 4B  
Seizure and 
Detention of property 
suspected to be 
terrorist property 
Section 13 
Forfeiture of certain terrorist property 
Circumstances
Any property 
held by any 
person is 
terrorist 
property 
(a) In any premises 
there is terrorist 
property; 
(b) There is in any 
premises anything 
that is, or 
contains, evidence 
of a relevant 
offence 
Any specified property 
(a) In whole or in part directly or 
indirectly represents any proceeds 
arising from a terrorist act; 
(b) Is intended to be used to finance or 
otherwise assist the commission of a 
terrorist act; or 
(c) Was used to finance or otherwise assist 
the commission of a terrorist act 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
2
 
Section 6 
Part 4B 
Section 13 
Authorization
S for S to 
specify 
Authorized by the 
Court 
Authorized by the Court 
Standard of 
proof 
Having 
reasonable 
grounds to 
suspect 
There is reasonable 
cause to suspect 
The standard of proof applicable to civil 
proceedings 
 
Standard of proof applicable to civil proceedings 
3. 
In the Drug Trafficking (Recovery of Proceeds) Ordinance (Cap. 405) and the 
Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455), restraint orders and 
charging orders are issued as “ interim measures” before the defendant is charged 
with the offence.  The property cannot be used, while the law enforcement 
agencies continue their investigation to gather sufficient evidence to charge the 
defendant or forfeit the property.  Thus, when the Court of First Instance issues 
restraint or charging orders, it should be “ satisfied that, in all the circumstances 
of the case, there is reasonable cause to believe that the defendant may be 
charged with the offence after further investigation is carried out” (s. 9(1)(ba) of 
Cap. 405 and s. 14(1)(ba) of Cap. 455). 
 
4. 
The rationale should be the same for the freezing, seizing and detaining of 
terrorist property.  When the S for S specifies the property, or when the Court 
issues a warrant to seize and detain property, the understanding should be that the 
property concerned will eventually be forfeited, after sufficient evidence has 
been obtained. 
 
5. 
The standard of proof to freeze, seize and detain terrorist property should 
therefore be the same as that of forfeiting terrorist property in Section 13(4) of 
the United Nations (Anti-Terrorism Measures) Ordinance: “ The standard of 
proof on an application under this section shall be the standard of proof 
applicable to civil proceedings in a court of law”.   
 
Section 6(1) and Section 12G(1) 
6. 
The Administration should clarify the relation between Section 6 and Section 
12G(1). 
 
 
Section 6 Freezing of property 
(1) Where the Secretary has reasonable grounds to suspect that any property held by 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
3
any person is terrorist property, the Secretary may, by notice in writing specifying 
the property, direct that the property not be made available, directly or indirectly, 
to any person except under the authority of a licence granted by the Secretary 
 
Section 12G 
Issue of warrant 
(1) Where it appears to the Court upon the oath of any person that there is reasonable 
cause to suspect that –  
(a) in any premises there is terrorist property; or 
(b) there is in any premises any thing that is, or contains, evidence of a relevant offence, 
the Court may issue a warrant authorizing an authorized officer to enter the 
premises named in the warrant and there to search for and seize, remove and detain 
any terrorist property. 
 
l 
Will the use of one procedure trigger use of the other?   
l 
What will be the criteria in the selection of either procedure?   
l 
Can the S for S pick and choose whatever procedure is convenient to him? 
In theory, he can use Section 6 when the possibility of obtaining the Court’s 
approval under Part 4B is questionable. 
 
Restraint Orders and Charging Orders 
7. 
The Administration should consider adopting the model of issuing restraint 
orders and charging orders in the Drug Trafficking (Recovery of Proceeds) 
Ordinance and the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance.  There is working 
experience of this model and these procedures would provide flexibility in 
freezing different types of property. 
 
Expiration of a freezing order under Section 6 
8. 
As shown in the table above, the S for S has very wide powers to freeze property 
belonging to suspected terrorists.  The test as stated provides a low threshold, 
while that of the Court to seize, detain and forfeit terrorist property is limited to 
specified circumstances.  Once the S for S freezes property belonging to 
suspected terrorists, it should be incumbent on him to proceed with an 
application to the Court to forfeit the property as soon as practicable.  The 
length of the freezing order of two years is unreasonably long.  The 
Administration should consider shortening this period, so that the risks of a 
wrongful freezing order can be properly balanced. 
 
“ Warrantless search power”  
9. 
In Section 6(10) there is a proposal to enable the S for S to authorize 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
4
“ warrantless searches” to seize terrorist property. There is concern over possible 
abuse by the Executive, therefore in relation to any decision on seizure it would 
be preferable to maintain a warrant-based power.  
If the Administration maintains its view on “ warrantless searches”, the Law 
Society is of the view that, as a minimum and in order to satisfy the threshold 
test in Section 6(11), namely “ reasonable cause to suspect that the relevant 
property will be removed from the HKSAR”, the S for S should at the very least 
demonstrate, or better still provide proof that the property would be removed 
from Hong Kong before the authority can be exercised.  
 
 
The Law Society of Hong Kong 
20 May 2004 
77049 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
